Making available is for the most part still considered the task of classical publishing companies, despite the fact that classical forms of publishing centered around printed narrative articles no longer seem well-suited in the digital age.
archiving scientific results is for the most part still considered the task of classical publishing companies, despite the fact that classical forms of publishing centered around printed narrative articles no longer seem well-suited in the digital age.
In particular, there exist currently no efficient, reliable for publishing scientific datasets.
publishing scientific datasets which have become increasingly important for science.
In particular, there exist currently agreed-upon methods for publishing scientific datasets.
Here we propose to design scientific data publishing as a Web-based bottom-up process, without top-down control of central authorities such as publishing companies.
Based on a novel combination of existing concepts we present a server network to decentrally store and archive data in the form of an RDF-based format to represent scientific data.
Based on a novel combination of existing concepts we present a server network to decentrally store and archive data in the form of nanopublications to represent scientific data.
Based on a novel combination of technologies we present a server network to decentrally store and archive data in the form of an RDF-based format to represent scientific data.
Based on a novel combination of technologies we present a server network to decentrally store and archive data in the form of nanopublications to represent scientific data.
We show how this approach allows researchers to publish, retrieve, verify, and recombine datasets of nanopublications in a trustworthy manner.
We argue that this architecture could be used for the Semantic Web in general.
We show how this approach allows researchers to publish, retrieve, verify, and recombine datasets of nanopublications in a reliable manner.
Evaluation of the current small network shows that this system is efficient.
Evaluation of the current small network shows that this system is reliable.