Little is known of the functional potential of the gut microbiome in pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis . We performed metagenomic analyses using stool samples from individuals with pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis and unaffected controls .

Persons over 21 years old enrolled in the Canadian Pediatric Demyelinating Disease Network providing a stool sample were eligible . Twenty patients with multiple sclerosis with symptom onset smaller than 18 years were matched to 20 controls by sex, age, stool consistency, and race . Microbial taxonomy and functional potentials were estimated from stool sample–derived metagenomic reads and compared by disease status and disease-modifying drug (disease-modifying drug) exposure using alpha diversity, relative abundance, and prevalence using Wilcoxon rank sum, ALDEx2, and Fisher exact tests, respectively .

Individuals with multiple sclerosis were aged 13.6 years at symptom onset and 8 were disease-modifying drug-naive . Mean ages at stool sample were 16.1 for multiple sclerosis and 15.4 years for control participants . Alpha diversity of enzymes and proteins did not differ by disease or disease-modifying drug status, but metabolic pathways, gene annotations, and microbial taxonomy did . Individuals with multiple sclerosis exhibited higher methanogenesis prevalence and Methanobrevibacter abundance, but lower homolactic fermentation abundance . Differences by disease-modifying drug status included lower phosphate butyryl transferase for disease-modifying drug-naive vs exposed patients with multiple sclerosis .

The gut microbiome's functional potential and taxonomy differed between individuals with pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis vs controls, including higher prevalence of a methane-producing pathway from Archaea and depletion of the lactate fermentation pathway . disease-modifying drug exposure was associated with butyrate-producing enzyme enrichment . Together these findings indicate that the gut microbiome of individuals with multiple sclerosis may have a disturbed functional potential .

