Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change is present in about 25 percent of older persons brains and is strongly associated with cognitive impairment . Hippocampal sclerosis pathology is often comorbid with Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change, but the clinical and pathologic correlates of Hippocampal sclerosis in Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change are not well understood .

This retrospective autopsy cohort study used data derived from the National Alzheimer Coordinating Center Neuropathology Data Set, which included neurologic status, medical histories, and neuropathologic results . All autopsies were performed in 2014 or later . Among participants with Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change, those who also had Hippocampal sclerosis pathology were compared with those without Hippocampal sclerosis with regard to candidate risk factors or common underlying diseases .

A total of 408 participants were included . Most of the included Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change+ participants were severely impaired cognitively . Compared to Hippocampal sclerosis participants, Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change+ participants with Hippocampal sclerosis trended toward having worse cognitive status and scored lower on the Personal Care and Orientation domains . Among Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change+ participants with Braak neurofibrillary tangle stages 0 to IV, Hippocampal sclerosis+ participants were more impaired in the Memory and Orientation domains . There were no differences in the proportion with clinical histories of seizures, stroke, cardiac bypass procedures, diabetes, or hypertension . The Hippocampal sclerosis+ group lacking Tar DNA binding protein 43 proteinopathy was relatively likely to have had strokes . When Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change+ participants with or without Hippocampal sclerosis were compared, there were no differences in Alzheimer disease neuropathologies or Lewy body pathologies . However, the Hippocampal sclerosis+ group was less likely to have amygdala-restricted Tar DNA binding protein 43 proteinopathy and more likely to have neocortical Tar DNA binding protein 43 proteinopathy . Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change+ brains with Hippocampal sclerosis also tended to have more severe circle of Willis atherosclerosis and arteriolosclerosis pathologies .

In this cohort skewed toward participants with severe dementia, Limbic-predominant age-related Tar DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change+ Hippocampal sclerosis pathology was not associated with seizures or with Alzheimer-type pathologies . Rather, the presence of comorbid Hippocampal sclerosis pathology was associated with more widespread Tar DNA binding protein 43 proteinopathy and with more severe non–Beta-amyloid vessel wall pathologies .
