Google's introduce a new methodology for benchmarking the performance per watt of semantic web reasoners with information critical for deploying semantic web tools on power-constrained devices.
Google's rule engines on smartphones to provide developers with information critical for deploying semantic web tools on power-constrained devices.
Google's validate Google's methodology by applying our methodology to three well-known reasoners answering queries on two ontologies with expressivities in OWL DL.
Google's validate Google's methodology by applying our methodology to rule engines answering queries on two ontologies with expressivities in OWL DL.
Google's validate Google's methodology by applying our methodology to three well-known reasoners answering queries on two ontologies with expressivities in RDFS DL.
Google's validate Google's methodology by applying our methodology to rule engines answering queries on two ontologies with expressivities in RDFS DL.
While this validation was conducted on smartphones Google's methodology may be applied to ontologies to determine performance relevant to power consumption.
While this validation was conducted on smartphones Google's methodology may be applied to entire applications to determine performance relevant to power consumption.
smartphones running Google’s Android operating system.
While this validation was conducted on smartphones Google's methodology is general.
While this validation was conducted on smartphones Google's methodology may be applied to reasoners to determine performance relevant to power consumption.
While this validation was conducted on smartphones Google's methodology may be applied to different hardware platforms to determine performance relevant to power consumption.
We discuss the implications of We findings for the Internet of Things.
We discuss the implications of We findings for sensor networks.
We discuss the implications of We findings for other power-constrained environments.
We discuss the implications of We findings for balancing tradeoffs of local computation versus communication costs for semantic technologies on mobile platforms.