The severity of white matter hyperintensities at presentation with stroke is associated with poststroke dementia and dependency . However, white matter hyperintensities can decrease or increase after stroke; prediction of cognitive decline is imprecise; and there are few data assessing longitudinal interrelationships among changing white matter hyperintensities, cognition, and function after stroke, despite the clinical importance .

We recruited patients within 3 months of a minor ischemic stroke, defined as NIH Stroke Scale score smaller than 8 and not expected to result in a modified Rankin Scale score above 2 . Participants repeated MRI at 1 year and cognitive and modified Rankin Scale assessments at 1 and 3 years . We ran longitudinal mixed-effects models assessing change in Addenbrooke Cognitive Examination–Revised and modified Rankin Scale scores . For modified Rankin Scale score, we assessed longitudinal white matter hyperintensities volumes, adjusting for age, NIH Stroke Scale score, Addenbrooke Cognitive Examination–Revised, stroke subtype, and time to assessment . For Addenbrooke Cognitive Examination–Revised score, we additionally adjusted for ICV, modified Rankin Scale, premorbid IQ, and vascular risk factors . We then used a multivariate model to jointly assess changing cognition and modified Rankin Scale score, adjusted for prognostic variables, using all available data .

We recruited 264 patients . One year after stroke, normalized white matter hyperintensities volumes were associated more strongly with 1-year Addenbrooke Cognitive Examination–Revised score compared to subacute white matter hyperintensities volumes and Addenbrooke Cognitive Examination–Revised score . Three-year modified Rankin Scale score was associated with 3-year Addenbrooke Cognitive Examination–Revised score . Combined change in baseline-1-year jointly assessed Addenbrooke Cognitive Examination–Revised and modified Rankin Scale scores was associated with fluctuating white matter hyperintensities volumes .

After stroke, fluctuating white matter hyperintensities mean that 1-year, but not baseline, white matter hyperintensities volumes are associated strongly with contemporaneous cognitive scores . Covarying longitudinal decline in cognition and independence after stroke, central to dementia diagnosis, is associated with increasing white matter hyperintensities volumes .
