To study the relationship between the presence of cerebral microbleeds and acute hematoma characteristics among patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage .

We pooled individual patient data from the Antihypertensive Treatment of Acute Cerebral Hemorrhage 2 trial and the Minimally Invasive Surgery Plus Alteplase for Intracerebral Hemorrhage Evacuation phase 3 trial . We included individuals with a brain MRI scan . Exposure was the presence of a cerebral microbleed . The coprimary outcomes were admission intracerebral hemorrhage volume and hematoma expansion . Mixed-effects linear and logistic regression models were used, with demographics and comorbid conditions considered fixed effects and the study cohort treated as a random effect . Additional analyses assessed the relationship between cerebral microbleed topography and number and hematoma characteristics .

Of the 1,499 patients with intracerebral hemorrhage enrolled in the parent trials, 466 were included in this analysis, and 231 patients had cerebral microbleeds . In adjusted models, presence of cerebral microbleeds was associated with smaller intracerebral hemorrhage volume and lower odds of hematoma expansion . The strength of association between cerebral microbleeds and hematoma characteristics increased with increasing number of cerebral microbleeds . The location of the cerebral microbleeds and the severity of leukoaraiosis did not modify these results .

In a pooled cohort of patients with intracerebral hemorrhage, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that more severe underlying small vessel disease, as represented by cerebral microbleeds, leads to smaller baseline hematoma volumes and reduced hematoma expansion . Underlying cerebral small vessel disease may be of prognostic significance after intracerebral hemorrhage .

This study provides Class II evidence that the presence of microbleeds on MRI is associated with a smaller intracerebral hemorrhage volume at presentation and a lower rate of hematoma expansion on follow-up imaging .

