Companies produce a large amount of quantitative ) data, consisting of measurements ranging from e.g. the surface temperatures of an ocean to the viscosity of a sample of mayonnaise.
governmental agencies produce a large amount of research ) data, consisting of measurements ranging from e.g. the surface temperatures of an ocean to the viscosity of a sample of mayonnaise.
governmental agencies produce a large amount of quantitative ) data, consisting of measurements ranging from e.g. the surface temperatures of an ocean to the viscosity of a sample of mayonnaise.
scientists produce a large amount of quantitative ) data, consisting of measurements ranging from e.g. the surface temperatures of an ocean to the viscosity of a sample of mayonnaise.
Companies produce a large amount of research ) data, consisting of measurements ranging from e.g. the surface temperatures of an ocean to the viscosity of a sample of mayonnaise.
scientists produce a large amount of research ) data, consisting of measurements ranging from e.g. the surface temperatures of an ocean to the viscosity of a sample of mayonnaise.
Such measurements are stored in tables in e.g. research reports.
Such measurements are stored in tables in e.g. spreadsheet files.
To integrate such data, it is necessary to have a semantic description of the data.
To reuse such data, it is necessary to have a semantic description of the data.
However, the notation is often ambiguous, making automatic interpretation and conversion to other suitable format difficult.
the notation used.
However, the notation is often ambiguous, making automatic interpretation and conversion to RDF difficult.
For example, the table header cell “ f ” refers to frequency measured in Hertz can also refer to the quantities force.
For example, the table header cell “ f ” refers to frequency measured in Hertz can also refer to luminous flux.
For example, the table header cell “ f ” refers to frequency the symbol “ f ” can also refer to luminous flux.
For example, the table header cell “ f ” refers to frequency measured in Hertz can also refer to the unit farad.
For example, the table header cell “ f ” refers to frequency the symbol “ f ” can also refer to the unit farad.
For example, the table header cell “ f ” refers to frequency the symbol “ f ” can also refer to the quantities force.
Current annotation tools for this task either work on less ambiguous data.
Current annotation tools for this task perform a more limited task.
We introduce new disambiguation strategies based on an ontology.
an ontology which allows to improve performance on “ sloppy ” datasets not yet targeted by existing systems.