Cerebrovascular disease is frequently comorbid with autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer disease, but its contribution to the clinical presentation of Alzheimer disease remains unclear . We leveraged the National Alzheimer Coordinating Center uniform and neuropathology datasets to compare the cognitive and functional trajectories of Alzheimer disease and Cerebrovascular disease brain donors .

The sample included National Alzheimer Coordinating Center brain donors with autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer disease and complete Uniform Data Set evaluations between 2005 and 2019, with the most recent Uniform Data Set evaluation within 2 years of autopsy . Cerebrovascular disease was defined as moderate to severe arteriosclerosis or atherosclerosis . We used propensity score weighting to isolate the effects of comorbid Alzheimer disease and Cerebrovascular disease . This method improved the balance of covariates between the Alzheimer disease with Cerebrovascular disease group and the Alzheimer disease without Cerebrovascular disease group . Longitudinal mixed-effects models were assessed with robust bayesian estimation . Uniform Data Set neuropsychological test and the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale Sum of Boxes scores were primary outcomes .

The Alzheimer disease with Cerebrovascular disease group had accelerated decline on measures of processing speed, working memory, verbal fluency, naming, and Clinical Dementia Rating Scale Sum of Boxes . Effects ranged from weak to strong . We also found worse performance in the Alzheimer disease with Cerebrovascular disease group across time on naming and verbal fluency and more impaired Clinical Dementia Rating Scale Sum of Boxes scores .

In brain donors with autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer disease, comorbid Cerebrovascular disease was associated with an accelerated functional and cognitive decline, particularly on neuropsychological tests of attention, psychomotor speed, and working memory . Cerebrovascular disease magnified effects of Alzheimer disease neuropathology on semantic-related neuropsychological tasks . Findings support a prominent additive and more subtle synergistic effect for comorbid Cerebrovascular disease neuropathology in Alzheimer disease .

