Risk for memory decline is a substantial concern in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy undergoing anterior temporal lobectomy . Although prior studies have identified associations between memory and integrity of white matter networks within the medial temporal lobe preoperatively, we contribute a study examining whether microstructural asymmetry of deep and superficial white matter networks within the medial temporal lobe predicts postoperative memory decline .

Patients with drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy were recruited from 2 epilepsy centers in a prospective longitudinal study . All patients completed preoperative T1 and diffusion-weighted MRI as well as preoperative and postoperative neuropsychological testing . Preoperative fractional anisotropy of the white matter directly beneath the neocortex and of deep white matter tracts associated with memory were calculated . Asymmetry was calculated for hippocampal volume and fractional anisotropy of each white matter tract or region and examined in linear and logistic regressions with preoperative to postoperative memory change as the primary outcome .

Data were analyzed from 42 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent anterior temporal lobectomy . Leftward fractional anisotropy asymmetry of the entorhinal Swhite matter was associated with decline on prose and associative recall in Ltemporal lobe epilepsy, whereas leftward fractional anisotropy asymmetry of the uncinate fasciculus was associated with decline on prose recall only . After controlling for preoperative memory score and hippocampal volume, leftward fractional anisotropy asymmetry of the entorhinal Swhite matter uniquely contributed to decline in both prose and associative recall and leftward fractional anisotropy asymmetry of the uncinate fasciculus uniquely contributed to decline in prose recall . A model combining asymmetry of hippocampal volume and entorhinal fractional anisotropy correctly classified memory outcomes in 79 percent of patients with Ltemporal lobe epilepsy for prose and 81 percent of patients for associative recall. Entorhinal Swhite matter asymmetry was the strongest predictor in both models .

Preoperative asymmetry of deep white matter and Swhite matter integrity within the medial temporal lobe is a strong predictor of postoperative memory decline in temporal lobe epilepsy, suggesting that surgical decision-making may benefit from considering each patients white matter network adequacy and reserve in addition to hippocampal integrity .
