A key problem in ontology alignment is that lexical ) vary widely in e.g., structural -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that semantic ) vary widely in different ontological features -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that semantic ) vary widely in e.g., semantic -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that different ontological features ) vary widely in e.g., lexical -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that e.g. ) vary widely in e.g., lexical -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that semantic ) vary widely in e.g., structural -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that e.g. ) vary widely in different ontological features -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that structural ) vary widely in different ontological features -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that structural ) vary widely in e.g., lexical -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that e.g. ) vary widely in e.g., structural -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that e.g. ) vary widely in e.g., semantic -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that different ontological features ) vary widely in e.g., semantic -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that semantic ) vary widely in e.g., lexical -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that lexical ) vary widely in different ontological features -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that lexical ) vary widely in e.g., semantic -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that lexical ) vary widely in e.g., lexical -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that different ontological features ) vary widely in different ontological features -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that structural ) vary widely in e.g., structural -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that different ontological features ) vary widely in e.g., structural -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
A key problem in ontology alignment is that structural ) vary widely in e.g., semantic -RRB- importance for different ontology comparisons.
In this paper, we present a set of principled techniques.
principled techniques that exploit user feedback to customize the alignment process for a given pair of ontologies.
Specifically, we propose an iterative supervised-learning approach to determine the weights.
the weights assigned to each alignment strategy.
the weights assigned to each alignment strategy to combine each alignment strategy for matching ontology entities.
Specifically, we propose an iterative supervised-learning approach to use the weights.
the weights assigned to each alignment strategy to determine the degree to which the information from such matches should be propagated to such matches neighbors along different relationships for collective matching.
We demonstrate the utility of these techniques with large, real-world ontologies showing improvements in F-scores of up to 70.
We demonstrate the utility of these techniques with standard benchmark datasets showing improvements in F-scores of up to 70.