Ranking of web service compositions are some of the most interesting challenges at present.
optimization of web service compositions are some of the most interesting challenges at present.
Since web services can be enhanced with formal semantic descriptions, forming the “ semantic web services ”, it becomes conceivable to exploit the quality of semantic links between services ( of any composition ) as one of the optimization criteria.
For this we propose to use the semantic similarities between output parameters of web services.
For this we propose to use the semantic similarities between input parameters of web services.
Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service allow us to rank compositions achieving the same goal.
Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service allow us to optimize compositions achieving the same goal.
an extensible optimization model designed to balance semantic fit ) with non-functional Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service metrics.
an innovative optimization model designed to balance or functional quality ) with non-functional Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service metrics.
an extensible optimization model designed to balance or functional quality ) with non-functional Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service metrics.
an innovative optimization model designed to balance semantic fit ) with non-functional Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service metrics.
Here we suggest an innovative optimization model.
Here we suggest an extensible optimization model.
To allow the use of an extensible optimization model we propose the use of Genetic Algorithms.
an innovative optimization model designed to balance semantic fit -RRB- with non-functional Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service metrics in the context of a large number of services as foreseen by the strategic EC-funded project SOA4All.
To allow the use of an innovative optimization model we propose the use of Genetic Algorithms.
To allow the use of an innovative optimization model we test the use of Genetic Algorithms.
an innovative optimization model designed to balance or functional quality -RRB- with non-functional Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service metrics in the context of a large number of services as foreseen by the strategic EC-funded project SOA4All.
an extensible optimization model designed to balance or functional quality -RRB- with non-functional Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service metrics in the context of a large number of services as foreseen by the strategic EC-funded project SOA4All.
an extensible optimization model designed to balance semantic fit -RRB- with non-functional Coupling this with other criteria such as quality of service metrics in the context of a large number of services as foreseen by the strategic EC-funded project SOA4All.
To allow the use of an extensible optimization model we test the use of Genetic Algorithms.