Stroke management in the context of primary mitochondrial disease is clinically challenging, and the best treatment options for patients with stroke-like episodes remain uncertain . We sought to perform a systematic review of the safety and efficacy of L-arginine use in the acute and prophylactic management of stroke-like episodes in patients with mitochondrial disease .

The systematic review was registered in PROSPERO . We searched, from inception to January 15, 2021, MEDLINE, Embase, Scopus, Web of Science, CINAHL, and ClinicalTrialsgov . Original articles and registered trials available, in English, reporting L-arginine use in the acute or prophylactic management of stroke-like episodes in patients with genetically confirmed mitochondrial disease were eligible for inclusion . Data on safety and treatment response were extracted and summarized by multiple observers . Risk of bias was assessed by the methodologic quality of case reports, case series, and a risk-of-bias checklist for nonrandomized studies . Quality of evidence was synthesized with the Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine Levels of Evidence and Grade of Recommendations . The predetermined main outcome measures were clinical response to L-arginine treatment, adverse events, withdrawals, and deaths, as defined by the author .

Improved headache at 24 hours was the greatest reported benefit in response to IV L-arginine in the open-label trials . In 15 of 48 patients who positively responded to prophylactic L-arginine, antiepileptic drugs were either used or unreported . Moderate adverse events were reported in the follow-up of both IV and oral L-arginine treatment, and 11 patients died during follow-up or while on prophylactic treatment .

The available evidence is of poor methodologic quality and classified as Level 5 . IV and oral L-arginine confers no demonstrable clinical benefit in either the acute or prophylactic treatment of mitochondrial encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes, with more robust controlled trials required to assess its efficacy and safety profile .

