Functional connectivity measures can be used to differentiate epileptogenic zones from non-epileptogenic zones in patients with medically refractory epilepsy . Little work has been done to evaluate the stability of stereo-EEG Functional connectivity measures over time and their relationship with antiseizure medication use, a critical confounder in epilepsy Functional connectivity studies .

antiseizure medication dosages were recorded for days 1–7 postimplantation and drug load score per day was calculated to standardize and compare across patients . Functional connectivity was evaluated using directed and nondirected measures . Standard clinical interpretation of ictal stereo-EEG was used to classify brain regions as epileptogenic zones and non-epileptogenic zones .

Over 7 days, presumed epileptogenic zones consistently had higher Functional connectivity than non-epileptogenic zones when using between imaginary coherence and partial directed coherence inward strength, without accounting for drug load score . These measures were demonstrated to be stable over a short-term period of 3 consecutive days with the same drug load score . Between imaginary coherence Functional connectivity differences between epileptogenic zones and non-epileptogenic zones were reduced with drug load score decreases, whereas other measures were not affected by drug load score . Functional connectivity differences between epileptogenic zones and non-epileptogenic zones were seen during both resting-state and pseudo-rest conditions . imaginary coherence values were strongly correlated between the 2 conditions, whereas partial directed coherence values were not .

Inward and nondirected stereo-EEG Functional connectivity is higher in presumed epileptogenic zones vs non-epileptogenic zones and measures are stable over time . However, certain measures may be affected by antiseizure medication dose, as between imaginary coherence differences between epileptogenic zones and non-epileptogenic zones are less pronounced with lower doses, and other measures such as partial directed coherence are poorly correlated across recording conditions . These findings allow novel insight into how stereo-EEG Functional connectivity measures may aid surgical localization and how they are influenced by antiseizure medications and other factors .
