Sentiment analysis over Twitter offer organisations a fast way to monitor the publics’ feelings towards the publics' brand for training sentiment classifiers for Twitter datasets have been researched in recent years with varying results.
Sentiment analysis over Twitter offer organisations a effective way to monitor the publics’ feelings towards the publics' brand for training sentiment classifiers for Twitter datasets have been researched in recent years with varying results.
Sentiment analysis over Twitter offer organisations a fast way to monitor the publics’ feelings towards the publics' methods for training sentiment classifiers for Twitter datasets have been researched in recent years with varying results.
Sentiment analysis over Twitter offer organisations a effective way to monitor the publics’ feelings towards the publics' methods for training sentiment classifiers for Twitter datasets have been researched in recent years with varying results.
Sentiment analysis over Twitter offer organisations a effective way to monitor the publics’ feelings towards the publics' business, directors A wide range of features for training sentiment classifiers for Twitter datasets have been researched in recent years with varying results.
Sentiment analysis over Twitter offer organisations a fast way to monitor the publics’ feelings towards the publics' business, directors A wide range of features for training sentiment classifiers for Twitter datasets have been researched in recent years with varying results.
the training set for sentiment analysis.
In this paper, we introduce a novel approach of adding semantics as additional features into the training.
For each we measure the correlation of the representative concept with negativepositive sentiment.
For each we add iPhone semantic concept ) as an additional feature.
For each we add e.g. “ Apple product ” ) as an additional feature.
each extracted entity ) from tweets.
each extracted e.g. iPhone ) from tweets.
We apply this approach to predict sentiment for three different Twitter datasets.
We results show an average increase of F harmonic accuracy score for identifying both negative sentiment of around 6.5.
We results show an average increase of F harmonic accuracy score for identifying both positive sentiment of around 6.5.