An important issue for the Semantic Web is how to combine open-world ontology languages with non-monotonic ) rule paradigms.
An important issue for the Semantic Web is how to combine open-world ontology languages with closed-world ) rule paradigms.
Several proposals for hybrid languages allow concepts to be simultaneously defined by an ontology where the ontology may also refer to predicates.
predicates defined by the rules.
Several proposals for hybrid languages allow concepts to be simultaneously defined by an ontology where rules may refer to concepts in the ontology.
Several proposals for hybrid languages allow concepts to be simultaneously defined by rules where the ontology may also refer to predicates.
Several proposals for hybrid languages allow concepts to be simultaneously defined by rules where rules may refer to concepts in the ontology.
one such proposal for which both a stable have been defined.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases are one such proposal.
one such proposal for which both a well-founded semantics have been defined.
The definition of Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases is parametric on the ontology language, in the sense that non-monotonic rules can extend any decidable ontology language.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases that is correct with respect to the well-founded semantics.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases that is sound with respect to the original stable model-based semantics.
In this paper we define a query-driven procedure for Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases.
a query-driven procedure for Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases is parametric on an inference engine for reasoning in tology language.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases that is sound with respect to the original stable model-based semantics.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases that is correct with respect to the well-founded semantics.
a query-driven procedure for Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases is parametric on an inference engine for reasoning in the on.
a query-driven procedure for Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases is able to answer conjunctive queries.
a tabled rule evaluation to capture reasoning within an ontology by modeling a query-driven procedure for Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases that is sound with respect to the original stable model-based semantics.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases that is sound with respect to the original stable model-based semantics.
a query-driven procedure for Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases is based on an extension of a and, with some assumptions on the complexity of the oracle compared to the complexity of the ontology language, maintains the data complexity of the well-founded semantics for hybrid MKNF knowledge bases.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases that is correct with respect to the well-founded semantics as an interaction with an external oracle.
Hybrid MKNF knowledge bases that is correct with respect to the well-founded semantics.