The launch of the new Google News in 2018 -LRB- https://www.blog.google/products/news/new-google-news-ai-meets-human-intelligence/. -RRB-
introduced the Frequently asked questions feature to structurally summarize the news story in the full coverage page.
While news summarization has been a research topic for decades, this new feature is poised to usher in a new line of news summarization techniques.
There are two fundamental approaches: learning the questions from the content of the news story directly.
There are two fundamental approaches: mining the questions from associated with the news story.
This paper provides the first study, to the best of our knowledge, of based approach to generate a structured summary of news articles with question pairs to capture salient aspects of the news story.
This paper provides the first study, to the best of our knowledge, of based approach to generate a structured summary of news articles with question pairs to capture interesting aspects of the news story.
This paper provides the first study, to the best of our knowledge, of based approach to generate a structured summary of news articles with answer pairs to capture interesting aspects of the news story.
This paper provides the first study, to the best of our knowledge, of based approach to generate a structured summary of news articles with answer pairs to capture salient aspects of the news story.
Specifically, this learning-based approach reads a news article, predicts a news article attention map -LRB- i.e., important snippets in a news article -RRB-, and generates multiple natural language questions corresponding to each snippet.
Furthermore, we describe a mining-based approach as the mechanism to generate weak supervision data for based approach.
we evaluate we approach on the existing SQuAD dataset -LRB- https://rajpurkar.github.io/SQuAD-explorer/. -RRB-
and a large dataset with 91K news articles we constructed.
we show that we proposed system can achieve an AUC of 0.734 for document attention map prediction for question summarization, beating state-of-art baselines.
we show that we proposed system can achieve an AUC of a BLEU-4 score of 12.46 for natural question generation for question summarization, beating state-of-art baselines.
we show that we proposed system can achieve an AUC of a BLEU-4 score of 24.4 for question summarization, beating state-of-art baselines.