The care of patients with large vessel occlusion stroke has been revolutionized by endovascular thrombectomy . While endovascular thrombectomy has a large effect size, most patients treated with endovascular thrombectomy remain disabled or die within 90 days . A better understanding of outcomes may influence endovascular thrombectomy selection criteria, novel therapies, and prognostication . We sought to identify associations between outcomes and brain regions involved in ischemic lesions .

For this cohort study, consecutive patients with large vessel occlusion who were treated with endovascular thrombectomy and underwent post-endovascular thrombectomy MRI were identified from a tertiary referral center . Acute ischemic lesions were manually segmented from diffusion-weighted imaging and spatially normalized . Individual lesions were parcellated and reduced to 10 essential lesion patterns with the use of unsupervised dimensionality reduction techniques . Ninety-day modified Rankin Scale score was modeled via bayesian regression, taking the 10 lesion patterns as inputs and controlling for lesion size, age, sex, acute NIH Stroke Scale score, alteplase, prior stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, and good reperfusion . In comparative analyses, 90-day modified Rankin Scale score was modeled considering covariates only, and compartment-wise relevances for acute stroke severity and 90-day modified Rankin Scale score were evaluated .

There were 151 patients with large vessel occlusion identified . The median NIH Stroke Scale score was 16 . The lesion location model outperformed the simpler model relying on covariates only . While lesions affecting subcortical nuclei had the highest relevance for stroke severity , lesions affecting white matter tracts had the highest relevance for 90-day modified Rankin Scale score .

These data describe the significance for outcomes of specific brain regions involved in ischemic lesions on MRI after endovascular thrombectomy. Future work in additional datasets is needed to confirm these granular findings .
