The goal of this work was to establish age adjusted, sex adjusted, and body dimension adjusted normal cutoff values for Meissner corpuscle densities via in vivo reflectance confocal microscopy, timed vibration sensory thresholds with a 128-Hz tuning fork, and touch-pressure sensory thresholds with standardized monofilaments for clinical and research application .

Seventy-seven prospectively recruited individuals without signs or symptoms of peripheral neuropathy or a condition or neurotoxin exposure that can alter sensory function underwent cross-sectional evaluation of Meissner corpuscle densities via in vivo reflectance confocal microscopy , monofilament touch-pressure sensory thresholds, and timed vibration sensory thresholds in nondominant upper and lower extremities. Age adjusted, sex adjusted, and body dimension adjusted normal values were developed . The fifth percentile for Meissner corpuscle densities and timed vibration thresholds and 95th percentile for MF touch-pressure thresholds were selected as normal cutoff points .

Participants were 9 to 89 years of age . Age and sex were uniformly distributed . Timed vibration and touch-pressure thresholds were less sensitive with increasing age and were more sensitive in the hand than in the leg or foot within individuals . Timed vibration thresholds did not differ by sex or body dimensions . Touch-pressure thresholds were lower at the thenar eminence and digit V in the hand in women compared to men but otherwise did not differ by sex at other measurement locations . Body dimensions did not affect touch-pressure thresholds . There were no apparent age-related floor effects for the 5th and 95th percentile normal cutoff values for timed vibration or touch-pressure thresholds, respectively . Meissner corpuscle densities also declined with age and were highest at digit V and lowest at the arch within individuals . Meissner corpuscle densities were affected by sex or body dimensions at all imaging sites, with lower densities seen in male participants or larger individuals . Meissner corpuscle densities were quantifiable in the hand of all participants and were associated with touch-pressure thresholds at all locations .

This study establishes age adjusted, sex adjusted, and body dimension adjusted normal cutoff values for 2 easily applied measures of large fiber sensory function and reflectance confocal microscopy  assessment of Meissner corpuscle densities for multiple limb locations . These results will aid in the detection and monitoring of peripheral sensory nerve disorders .

