2	"The key element of this sensors an ATR-crystals "	"catch"	"the biomarker "
3	"can "	"used"	"So far, the immuno-infrared sensor "
4	"So far, the immuno-infrared sensor "	"require"	"time-consuming steps of sensor cleaning. "
5	"So far, the immuno-infrared sensor "	"require"	"time-consuming steps of novel surface functionalization. "
6	"can "	"used"	"So far, the immuno-infrared sensor "
7	"can "	"used"	"So far, the immuno-infrared sensor "
8	"So far, the immuno-infrared sensor "	"require"	"time-consuming steps of sensor exchange. "
9	"an immuno-infrared-sensor an immuno-infrared-sensor "	"providing"	"a reusable surface a reusable surface "
9	"we we an an immuno-infrared-sensor immuno-infrared-sensor an immuno-infrared-sensor "	"showcase"	"an immuno-infrared-sensor providing a reusable surface its performance by Tau in human CSF performance by the detection of the Alzheimer's disease biomarker proteins Amyloid-beta and Tau in human CSF. "
10	"an immuno-infrared-sensor an immuno-infrared-sensor "	"providing"	"a reusable surface a reusable surface "
10	"we we an an immuno-infrared-sensor immuno-infrared-sensor an immuno-infrared-sensor "	"showcase"	"an immuno-infrared-sensor providing a reusable surface its performance by the detection of the Alzheimer's disease biomarker proteins Amyloid-beta by the detection of the Alzheimer's disease biomarker proteins Amyloid-beta and Tau in human CSF. "
11	"the immunoglobulin "	"binding"	"Protein G. "
13	"for non-covalent immobilization of antibodies. "	"employed"	"Protein G "
14	"for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of the immunoglobulin binding Protein G antigens. "	"employed"	"Protein G "
15	"for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of the immunoglobulin binding proteins Protein A. "	"employed"	"Protein G "
16	"for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of the immunoglobulin binding proteins Protein A. "	"employed"	"the immunoglobulin binding Protein A "
16	"the immunoglobulin proteins Protein A. "	"binding"	"Protein A were employed for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of the immunoglobulin binding proteins Protein A. "
17	"for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of Protein G antigens. "	"employed"	"the immunoglobulin binding Protein A "
17	"the immunoglobulin "	"binding"	"Protein A were employed for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of Protein G antigens. "
18	"for non-covalent immobilization of antibodies. "	"employed"	"the immunoglobulin binding Protein A "
18	"the immunoglobulin "	"binding"	"Protein A "
19	"can "	"repeated"	"the subsequent immobilization and analysis of their antigens "
20	"can "	"repeated"	"the subsequent immobilization and analysis of their antigens "
21	"Further, the more specific binding of the antibody via the antibody via its Fc region instead of the conventional NHS coupling Fc region instead of the conventional NHS coupling "	"leads"	"to a 3-4-fold higher antigen binding capacity of the antibody "
21	"a 3-4-fold higher antigen "	"binding"	"capacity of the antibody "
22	"significantly "	"increased"	"Thus, the sensitivity capacity of An immuno-infrared-biosensor for the preclinical detection of Alzheimer's disease in body fluids "
23	"significantly "	"increased"	"Thus, the throughput capacity of An immuno-infrared-biosensor for the preclinical detection of Alzheimer's disease in body fluids "
24	"significantly "	"increased"	"Thus, the automation capacity of An immuno-infrared-biosensor for the preclinical detection of Alzheimer's disease in body fluids "
25	"to Protein A. "	"binds"	"any antibody "
25	"with any antibody that binds to Protein A. "	"used"	"This immuno-sensor "
26	"to Protein G. "	"binds"	"any antibody "
26	"with any antibody that binds to Protein G. "	"used"	"This immuno-sensor "
