The development of biosensors for medical purposes is a growing field.
An immuno-infrared-biosensor for the preclinical detection of Alzheimer's disease in body fluids was developed.
The key element of this sensors is an ATR-crystals with modified surface to catch the biomarker out of the body fluid.
So far, the immuno-infrared sensor can be used only once.
So far, the immuno-infrared sensor can require time-consuming steps of sensor cleaning.
So far, the immuno-infrared sensor can require time-consuming steps of novel surface functionalization.
So far, the immuno-infrared sensor can be used only once.
So far, the immuno-infrared sensor can be used only once.
So far, the immuno-infrared sensor can require time-consuming steps of sensor exchange.
Here, we developed an immuno-infrared-sensor providing a reusable surface and showcase an immuno-infrared-sensor providing a reusable surface and showcase its performance by Tau in human CSF performance by the detection of the Alzheimer's disease biomarker proteins Amyloid-beta and Tau in human CSF.
Here, we developed an immuno-infrared-sensor providing a reusable surface and showcase an immuno-infrared-sensor providing a reusable surface and showcase its performance by the detection of the Alzheimer's disease biomarker proteins Amyloid-beta by the detection of the Alzheimer's disease biomarker proteins Amyloid-beta and Tau in human CSF.
The sensor surface is covalently coated with the immunoglobulin binding Protein G.
The sensor surface is covalently coated with the immunoglobulin binding Protein A.
Protein G were employed for non-covalent immobilization of antibodies.
Protein G were employed for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of the immunoglobulin binding Protein G antigens.
Protein G were employed for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of the immunoglobulin binding proteins Protein A.
the immunoglobulin binding Protein A were employed for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of the immunoglobulin binding proteins Protein A.
the immunoglobulin binding Protein A were employed for the subsequent immobilization and analysis of Protein G antigens.
the immunoglobulin binding Protein A were employed for non-covalent immobilization of antibodies.
the subsequent immobilization and analysis of their antigens can be repeated several times with the different antibodies.
the subsequent immobilization and analysis of their antigens can be repeated several times with the same antibodies.
Further, the more specific binding of the antibody via the antibody via its Fc region instead of the conventional NHS coupling Fc region instead of the conventional NHS coupling leads to a 3-4-fold higher antigen binding capacity of the antibody via its Fc region instead of the conventional NHS coupling.
Thus, the sensitivity capacity of An immuno-infrared-biosensor for the preclinical detection of Alzheimer's disease in body fluids are significantly increased as compared to former immuno-infrared-assays.
Thus, the throughput capacity of An immuno-infrared-biosensor for the preclinical detection of Alzheimer's disease in body fluids are significantly increased as compared to former immuno-infrared-assays.
Thus, the automation capacity of An immuno-infrared-biosensor for the preclinical detection of Alzheimer's disease in body fluids are significantly increased as compared to former immuno-infrared-assays.
This immuno-sensor can be used with any antibody that binds to Protein A.
This immuno-sensor can be used with any antibody that binds to Protein G.
