The growing popularity of social tagging systems promises to alleviate the knowledge bottleneck since social tagging systems allow ordinary users to create knowledge in a simple, scalable representation, usually known as folksonomy.
The growing popularity of social tagging systems promises to alleviate the knowledge bottleneck since social tagging systems allow ordinary users to share knowledge in a simple, scalable representation, usually known as folksonomy.
The growing popularity of social tagging systems promises to alleviate the knowledge bottleneck since social tagging systems allow ordinary users to create knowledge in a simple, cheap representation, usually known as folksonomy.
The growing popularity of social tagging systems promises to alleviate the knowledge bottleneck since social tagging systems allow ordinary users to share knowledge in a simple, cheap representation, usually known as folksonomy.
the knowledge bottleneck that slows down the full materialization of the Semantic Web.
However, for the sake of knowledge workflow, one needs to find a compromise between the more systematic vocabulary of domain experts.
However, for the sake of knowledge workflow, one needs to find a compromise between the uncontrolled nature of folksonomies.
However, for the sake of knowledge workflow, one needs to find a compromise between the controlled vocabulary of domain experts.
In this paper we propose to address this concern by introducing a novel algorithm based on frequent itemset mining techniques to efficiently learn an ontology over the enriched folksonomy.
In this paper we propose to address this concern by devising a method to efficiently learn an ontology over the enriched folksonomy.
a method that automatically enriches a folksonomy with domain expert knowledge.
In order to quantitatively assess our method, we propose a new benchmark for task-based ontology evaluation where the quality of the ontologies is measured based on how helpful the ontologies are for the task of personalized information finding.
We conduct experiments on real data.
We show the effectiveness of We approach.