Narcolepsy type 1 is an orphan brain disorder caused by the irreversible destruction of orexin neurons. Metabolic disturbances are common in patients with Narcolepsy type 1 who have a body mass index 10 percent to 20 percent higher than the general population, with one-third being obese . Besides the destruction of orexin neurons in Narcolepsy type 1, the metabolic alterations in obese and nonobese patients with Narcolepsy type 1 remain unknown . The aim of this study was to identify possible differences in plasma metabolic profiles between patients with Narcolepsy type 1 and controls as a function of their body mass index status .

We used a targeted liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry metabolomics approach to measure 141 circulating, low-molecular-weight metabolites in drug-free fasted plasma samples from 117 patients with Narcolepsy type 1 compared with 116 body mass index-matched controls .

Common metabolites driving the difference between patients with Narcolepsy type 1 and controls, regardless of body mass index, were identified, namely sarcosine, glutamate, nonaylcarnitine, 5 long-chain lysophosphatidylcholine acyls, 1 sphingolipid, 12 phosphatidylcholine diacyls, and 11 phosphatidylcholine acyl-akyls, all showing increased concentrations in Narcolepsy type 1 . Metabolite concentrations significantly affected by Narcolepsy type 1 and body mass index category showed little overlap . Quantitative enrichment analysis revealed common metabolic pathways that were implicated in the Narcolepsy type 1 control differences in both normal body mass index and obese comparisons, namely glycine and serine, arachidonic acid, and tryptophan metabolism . The metabolites driving these differences were glutamate, sarcosine, and ornithine, glutamate and PC arachidonic acid metabolism, and glutamate, serotonin, and tryptophan . Linear metabolite-endophenotype regression analyses highlight that as part of the Narcolepsy type 1 metabolic phenotype, most of the relationships between the sleep parameters and metabolite concentrations seen in the controls were lost .

These results represent the most comprehensive metabolic profiling of patients with Narcolepsy type 1 as a function of body mass index and propose some metabolic diagnostic biomarkers for Narcolepsy type 1, namely glutamate, sarcosine, serotonin, tryptophan, nonaylcarnitine, and some phosphatidylcholines . The metabolic pathways identified offer, if confirmed, possible targets for treatment of obesity in Narcolepsy type 1 .

This study provides Class II evidence that a distinct metabolic profile can differentiate patients with Narcolepsy type 1 from patients without the disorder .

