Collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms allow automated scripts to collaborate in creating, updating entities.
Collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms allow automated scripts to collaborate in creating, interlinking entities.
Collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms allow automated scripts to collaborate in creating, updating facts.
Collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms allow automated scripts to collaborate in creating, interlinking facts.
Collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms allow humans to collaborate in creating, interlinking facts.
Collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms allow humans to collaborate in creating, updating facts.
Collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms allow humans to collaborate in creating, updating entities.
Collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms allow humans to collaborate in creating, interlinking entities.
To ensure both the completeness of the data, it is crucial to identify underrepresented classes in the Knowledge Graph.
To ensure both a uniform coverage of the different topics, it is crucial to identify underrepresented classes in the Knowledge Graph.
In this paper, we tackle this problem by developing statistical techniques for class cardinality estimation in collaborative Knowledge Graph platforms.
we method is able to estimate the completeness of a class-- as defined by a schema or ontology-- hence can be used to answer questions such as `` Does the knowledge base have a complete list of all -LCB- Beer Brands | Volcanos | Video Game Consoles -RCB-? ''
As a use-case, we focus on Wikidata, which poses unique challenges in terms of the size of Wikidata, which poses unique challenges in terms of the size of its ontology, the number of users actively populating its graph, and its extremely dynamic nature ontology, the number of users actively populating Wikidata, which poses unique challenges in terms of the size of its ontology, the number of users actively populating its graph, and its extremely dynamic nature graph, and Wikidata, which poses unique challenges in terms of the size of its ontology, the number of users actively populating its graph, and its extremely dynamic nature extremely dynamic nature.
we techniques are derived from species estimation.
we techniques are applied to the case of collaborative editing.
we techniques are derived from species estimation.
we techniques are applied to the case of graphs.
we techniques are derived from data-management methodologies.
we techniques are applied to the case of collaborative editing.
we techniques are applied to the case of graphs.
we techniques are derived from data-management methodologies.
In we empirical evaluation, we observe that the number and frequency of unique class instances drastically influence the performance of an estimator, bursts of inserts cause some estimators to overestimate the true size of the class if some estimators are not properly handled, and one can effectively measure the convergence of a class towards its true size by considering the stability of an estimator against the number of available instances.