The Resource Description Framework is a standard for conceptually describing data on the Web.
SPARQL is the query language for The Resource Description Framework.
queries that are far more diverse.
As The Resource Description Framework data continue to be published across heterogeneous domains management systems are being exposed to workloads.
As The Resource Description Framework data continue to be integrated at Web-scale such as in the Linked Open Data cloud, The Resource Description Framework data management systems are being exposed to workloads.
As The Resource Description Framework data continue to be published across heterogeneous domains management systems are being exposed to queries.
workloads that are far more varied.
As The Resource Description Framework data continue to be integrated at Web-scale such as in the Linked Open Data cloud, The Resource Description Framework data management systems are being exposed to queries.
The first contribution of our work is an in-depth experimental analysis.
an in-depth experimental analysis that shows existing SPARQL benchmarks are not suitable for testing systems for diverse queries.
an in-depth experimental analysis that varied workloads.
the Waterloo SPARQL Diversity Test Suite that provides stress testing tools for The Resource Description Framework data management systems.
To address these shortcomings, our second contribution is the Waterloo SPARQL Diversity Test Suite.
Using the Waterloo SPARQL Diversity Test Suite, our have been able to reveal issues with existing systems.
evaluations using earlier benchmarks.
existing systems that went unnoticed in evaluations.
Specifically, our experiments with five popular The Resource Description Framework data management systems show that management systems can not deliver good performance uniformly across workloads.
For some queries, there can be as much as five orders of magnitude difference between the query execution time of the slowest system while the fastest system on one query may unexpectedly time out on another query.
For some queries, there can be as much as five orders of magnitude difference between the query execution time of the fastest while the fastest system on one query may unexpectedly time out on another query.
By performing a detailed analysis, we pinpoint these problems to specific types of queries.
By performing a detailed analysis, we pinpoint these problems to specific types of workloads.