Although there is evidence of disruption in acute cerebrovascular and cardiovascular care during the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, its downstream effect in primary care is less clear . We investigated how the pandemic affected utilization of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular care in general practices and determined changes in general practice-recorded diagnoses of selected cerebrovascular and cardiovascular outcomes .

From electronic health records of 166,929 primary care patients aged 30 or over within the Rotterdam region, the Netherlands, we extracted the number of consultations related to cerebrovascular and cardiovascular care, and first diagnoses of selected cerebrovascular and cardiovascular risk factors, conditions, and events . We quantified changes in those outcomes during the first coronavirus disease 2019 wave and thereafter by comparing them to the same period in 2016 to 2019 . We also estimated the number of potentially missed diagnoses for each outcome .

The number of general practice consultations related to cerebrovascular and cardiovascular care declined by 38 percent during the first wave, as compared to expected counts based on prepandemic levels . Substantial declines in the number of new diagnoses were observed for cerebrovascular events, while no significant changes were observed for cardiovascular events . The counts across individual diagnoses recovered following June 2020, but the number of general practice consultations related to cerebrovascular and cardiovascular care remained lower than expected throughout the June to December period .

While new diagnoses of acute cardiovascular events remained stable during the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, diagnoses of cerebrovascular events declined substantially compared to prepandemic levels, possibly due to incorrect perception of risk by patients . These findings emphasize the need to improve symptom recognition of cerebrovascular events among the general public and to encourage urgent presentation despite any physical distancing measures .

