The idea of knowledge sharing has strong roots in the education process.
moving learning material into the web environment the current development of the technology acquired a new dimension.
moving learning material into the web environment acquired a new dimension.
With the current development of the technology acquired a new dimension.
Learning objects are the chunks of knowledge.
knowledge shared by e-learning community.
Organizations are building repositories of annotate individuals with metadata to describe Organizations educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of learning objects standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of annotate Organizations with metadata to describe Organizations standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of annotate individuals with metadata to describe individuals educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of learning objects standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of learning objects educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of annotate individuals with metadata to describe individuals standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of annotate individuals with metadata to describe Organizations standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of annotate Organizations with metadata to describe Organizations standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of annotate individuals with metadata to describe individuals standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of annotate individuals with metadata to describe Organizations educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of annotate Organizations with metadata to describe individuals standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of annotate Organizations with metadata to describe individuals educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of learning objects educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of annotate Organizations with metadata to describe Organizations educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of annotate Organizations with metadata to describe Organizations educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of annotate Organizations with metadata to describe individuals standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of annotate individuals with metadata to describe Organizations standardization efforts are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
Organizations are building repositories of annotate Organizations with metadata to describe individuals educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
individuals are building repositories of annotate individuals with metadata to describe individuals educational values are on the way to provide a franca lingua for the educators.
In this paper the educators describe the peer-to-peer infrastructure for sharing learning object the educators are building in Canada.
an freely downloadable application which allows individuals to maintain individuals collection of learning objects.
PONDs are bigger repositories of learning objects.
objects connected to the peer-to-peer network.
The POOL projects builds on the three types of nodes.
SPLASH is an freely downloadable application.
POOL centrals increase the speed and breadth of the searches in the peer-to-peer network.
an freely downloadable application which allows individuals to create metadata.
The POOL projects uses CanCore- a subset of the IMS metadata protocol- to describe learning objects.
In the second part of this paper we discuss the future direction of this initiative based on the maturing learning objects community learned in the deployment of POOL network.
In the second part of this paper we discuss the future direction of this initiative based on the maturing learning objects lessons learned in the deployment of POOL network.
solutions that are too complex.
we argue that the standardization effort, although very important, currently provides solutions.
we see the communities where the knowledge is shared to be the main force in the creation of the metadata standards.
the metadata standards which would support the growth of semantic web.
The implications of moving the responsibility for metadata creation on communities poses new requirements on tools.
The implications of moving the responsibility for schemas on communities poses new requirements on interoperability.
The implications of moving the responsibility for metadata creation on communities poses new requirements on interoperability.
The implications of moving the responsibility for schemas on communities poses new requirements on tools.
we outline approach we are developing to address new requirements.
we describe new requirements.