Many tasks in which a system needs to mediate between natural language expressions and elements of a vocabulary in an ontology or dataset.
Many tasks require knowledge about how the elements of i.e. properties ) are expressed in natural language.
Many tasks require knowledge about how the elements of i.e. classes ) are expressed in natural language.
Many tasks require knowledge about how the elements of the vocabulary ) are expressed in natural language.
Many tasks require knowledge about how the elements of i.e. individuals ) are expressed in natural language.
In a multilingual setting, such knowledge is needed for each of the supported languages.
In this paper we present M-ATOLL .
In this paper we present a framework for automatically inducing ontology lexica in multiple languages on the basis of a multilingual corpus.
language-specific dependency patterns which are run over a parsed corpus.
a framework for automatically inducing ontology lexica in multiple languages on the basis of a multilingual corpus exploits a set of language-specific dependency patterns.
language-specific dependency patterns which are formalized as SPARQL queries.
We have instantiated the system for two languages: German.
We have instantiated the system for two languages: English.
We evaluate the system for two languages: English in terms of F-measure for English by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: German in terms of F-measure for German by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: English in terms of precision for English by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: English in terms of F-measure for German by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: German in terms of F-measure for English by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: German in terms of recall for German by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: English in terms of recall for English by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: English in terms of recall for German by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: English in terms of precision for German by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: German in terms of precision for English by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: German in terms of recall for English by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
We evaluate the system for two languages: German in terms of precision for German by comparing an automatically induced lexicon to manually constructed ontology lexica for DBpedia.
In particular, We investigate the contribution of each single dependency pattern.
In particular, We perform an analysis of the impact of different parameters.