The way that web services are currently being developed places web services beside.
The way that web services are currently being developed places web services within the existing World Wide Web.
support for semi-automatic composition that have semantically heterogeneous descriptions.
an approach that combines the strength of interlinked HTML pages for presentation consumption, with the strength of semantic web services.
an approach that combines the strength of the World Wide Web , with the strength of semantic web services.
an approach that combines the strength of invocation of web services.
In this paper we present an approach.
an approach that combines the strength of support for semi-automatic composition.
an approach that combines the strength of interlinked HTML pages for human consumption, with the strength of semantic web services.
interlinked HTML pages for presentation consumption, with the strength of semantic web services that have semantically heterogeneous descriptions.
invocation of web services that have semantically heterogeneous descriptions.
the World Wide Web , with the strength of semantic web services that have semantically heterogeneous descriptions.
interlinked HTML pages for human consumption, with the strength of semantic web services that have semantically heterogeneous descriptions.
The objective we aim at eventually is that a human user can seamlessly surf the existing World Wide Web and the existing World Wide Web services and that a human user can easily compose Web services on the fly without being a software engineer.
The objective we aim at eventually is that a human user can seamlessly surf the existing World Wide Web and the existing World Wide Web services and that a human user can easily invoke Web services on the fly without being a software engineer.
this paper presents our framework, OntoMat-Service.
OntoMat-Service which trades off between having a reasonably easy to use interface for web services.
OntoMat-Service which trades off between having the complexity of web service workflows.
this paper is not our objective that everybody can produce arbitrarily complex workflows of web services with the OntoMat-Service-Surfer.
this paper is not our objective that everybody can produce arbitrarily complex workflows of web services with our tool .
However, OntoMat-Service aims at a service web.
a service web where simple service flows are easily possible, even for people with not much technical background, while still allowing for difficult flows for a software engineer.