Individuals with biomarker evidence of Beta-amyloid deposition are increasingly being enrolled in clinical treatment trials but there is a need to identify markers to predict which of these individuals will also develop tau deposition . We aimed to determine whether Beta-amyloid-positive individuals can remain tau-negative for at least 5 years and identify characteristics that could distinguish between these individuals and those who develop high tau within this period .

Tau PET positivity was defined using a Gaussian mixture model with log-transformed standard uptake value ratio values from 7 temporal and medial parietal regions using all participants in the Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative with flortaucipir PET . Tau PET scans were classified as normal if the posterior probability of elevated tau was less than 1 perent . Beta-amyloid PET positivity was defined based on ADAlzheimer Disease Neuroimaging InitiativeNI cutpoints . We identified all Beta-amyloid-positive individuals from Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative who had normal tau PET more than 5 years after their first abnormal Beta-amyloid PET and all Beta-amyloid-positive individuals with abnormal tau PET within 5 years . In a case–control design, logistic regression was used to model the odds of biomarker Alzheimer disease versus low tau accounting for sex, age, APOE Epsilon4 carriership, Beta-amyloid Centiloid, and hippocampal volume .

APOE Epsilon4, higher Beta-amyloid Centiloid, and hippocampal atrophy were independently associated with increased odds of abnormal tau within 5 years . A Centiloid value of 50 effectively discriminated biomarker Alzheimer disease and low tau with 80 percent sensitivity and specificity . The majority of the low tau participants did not develop dementia throughout the 5-year interval .

Beta-amyloid-positive individuals can remain tau-negative for at least 5 years . Baseline characteristics can help identify these low tau individuals who are less likely to develop dementia . Conservative Beta-amyloid cutpoints should be utilized for clinical trials to better capture individuals with high risk of developing biomarker Alzheimer disease .
