In this paper we study the problem of information disclosure in ontology-based data access.
Policy-Protected OBDA ) which extends ontology-based data access with data protection policies enforced through a censor.
Following previous work on Controlled Query Evaluation, we introduce the framework of Policy-Protected ontology-based data access ).
a function that alters answers to users’ queries to avoid the disclosure of protected data.
Following previous work on Controlled Query Evaluation, we introduce a function.
Policy-Protected ontology-based data access ) which extends ontology-based data access with data protection policies specified over the ontology.
Following previous work on Controlled Query Evaluation, we introduce the framework of Policy-Protected OBDA ).
Policy-Protected ontology-based data access ) which extends ontology-based data access with data protection policies enforced through a censor.
Policy-Protected OBDA ) which extends ontology-based data access with data protection policies specified over the ontology.
show that query answering under censors in such a setting can be reduced to standard query answering in ontology-based data access ( without data protection policies ).
We consider Policy-Protected OBDA systems in which the policies are denial constraints.
We consider Policy-Protected OBDA systems in which the ontology is expressed in extsc owl2ql.
The basic idea of We approach is to compile the policies of a Policy-Protected OBDA system into the mapping of a standard ontology-based data access system.
To this aim, we analyze some notions of censor proposed in the literature.
To this aim, we analyze some notions of censor show that some notions of are not suited for the above-mentioned compilation.
To this aim, we analyze some notions of censor provide a new definition of censor that enables the effective realization of our idea.
our evaluated our technique over the NPD benchmark for ontology-based data access.
our have implemented our technique.
our results are very promising and show that controlled query evaluation in ontology-based data access can be realized in the practice by using off-the-shelf ontology-based data access engines.