Different planning techniques have been applied to the problem of automated composition of web services.
complex goals expressing preference requirements.
complex goals expressing temporal conditions.
However, in realistic cases, this planning problem is far from trivial: the planner needs to deal with with complex goals.
However, in realistic cases, this planning problem is far from trivial: the planner needs to deal with the nondeterministic behavior of web services.
However, in realistic cases, this planning problem is far from trivial: the planner needs to deal with the partial observability of web services internal status.
web services described in OWL-S process models.
OWL-S process models which can deal effectively with partial observability.
OWL-S process models which can deal effectively with nondeterminism.
We propose a planning technique for the automated composition of web services.
OWL-S process models which can deal effectively with complex goals.
web services described in OWL-S process models.
plans that encode compositions of web services with the usual programming constructs, like iterations.
OWL-S process models which can deal effectively with complex goals.
plans that encode compositions of web services with the usual programming constructs, like conditionals.
OWL-S process models which can deal effectively with partial observability.
OWL-S process models which can deal effectively with nondeterminism.
a planning technique for the automated composition of web services allows for the synthesis of plans.
The generated plans can thus be translated into BPEL4WS programs.
The generated plans can thus be translated into executable processes.
We do the gain in performance of automating the composition at the semantic level w.r.t. the automated composition at the level of executable processes.
We do some preliminary experimental evaluations.
We implement We solution in a planner.
some preliminary experimental evaluations that show the potentialities of We approach.