The Inference -RRB- lacks support for explaining knowledge provenance.
Web -RRB- lacks support for explaining knowledge provenance.
The Inference Web -RRB- lacks support for explaining knowledge provenance.
When web applications return answers, many users do not know what information was derived.
When web applications return answers, many users do not know what information was looked up.
updated how reliable the source was.
When web applications return answers, many users do not know when many users were updated.
When web applications return answers, many users do not know what information sources were used.
The Inference Web -RRB- also lacks support for explaining reasoning paths.
reasoning paths used to derive answers.
The Inference Web -RRB- also lacks support for explaining reasoning paths.
The Inference Web aims to take opaque query answers.
The Inference Web aims to make the answers more transparent by providing explanations.
The explanations include information concerning where answers came from ( or retrieved ).
The explanations include information concerning how answers were derived ( or retrieved ).
In this paper we describe an infrastructure for The Inference Web explanations.
an extensible web-based registry containing details on information sources, reasoners, languages,.
an infrastructure for The Inference Web explanations rewrite a explanation browser.
an infrastructure for The Inference Web explanations includes: an extensible web-based registry.
an infrastructure for The Inference Web explanations rewrite a proof browser.
an infrastructure for The Inference Web explanations rewrite rules.
an infrastructure for The Inference Web explanations rewrite a portable proof specification.
Source information in the the The Inference Web registry is used to convey knowledge provenance.
rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry the The Inference Web are used to support proofs.
rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry the The Inference Web are used to support semantic web agent interoperability.
reasoning language axioms are used to support proofs.
reasoning language axioms are used to support proof combination.
reasoning language axioms are used to support semantic web agent interoperability.
Representation language axioms are used to support proofs.
Representation language axioms are used to support semantic web agent interoperability.
rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry the The Inference Web are used to support proof combination.
Representation language axioms are used to support proof combination.
The The Inference Web is used to support navigation of proofs and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The browser is used to support presentations of proofs and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The The Inference Web is used to support presentations of reasoning language axioms and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The The Inference Web is used to support navigation of Representation language axioms and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The browser is used to support navigation of reasoning language axioms and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The The Inference Web is used to support presentations of proofs and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The browser is used to support presentations of reasoning language axioms and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The browser is used to support navigation of Representation language axioms and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The The Inference Web is used to support presentations of Representation language axioms and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The browser is used to support navigation of proofs and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The The Inference Web is used to support navigation of reasoning language axioms and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The browser is used to support presentations of Representation language axioms and rewrite rules in the The Inference Web registry explanations.
The Inference Web -LRB- The Inference Web -RRB- is in use by two Semantic Web agents fully registered in the The Inference Web.
two Semantic Web agents using an embedded reasoning engine.
Additional reasoning engine registration is underway in order to help provide input for evaluation of the adequacy, breadth, and scalability of our approach.