Epilepsy is defined by the occurrence of multiple unprovoked seizures, but quality of life in people with epilepsy is determined by multiple factors, in which psychiatric comorbid conditions play a pivotal role . Therefore, understanding the interplay between comorbid conditions and quality of life across epilepsy phenotypes is an important step toward improved outcomes . Here, we report the impact of quality of life across distinct epilepsy phenotypes in a cohort of post-nine-eleven veterans with high rates of traumatic brain injury .

This observational cohort study from the Veterans Health Administration included post-nine-eleven veterans with epilepsy . A process integrating an epilepsy identification algorithm, chart abstraction, and self-reported measures was used to classify patients into 1 of 4 groups, epilepsy controlled with medications, drug-resistant epilepsy, posttraumatic epilepsy, or drug-resistant posttraumatic epilepsy . Summary scores for 6 quality of life measures were compared across the groups after adjustment for age, sex, and number of comorbid conditions .

A total of 529 survey respondents with epilepsy were included in the analysis . drug-resistant epilepsy was more common in those with posttraumatic epilepsy compared with those with nontraumatic epilepsy . Patients with posttraumatic epilepsy and drug-resistant posttraumatic epilepsy had significantly more comorbid conditions in health records than those with nontraumatic epilepsy . Those with both posttraumatic epilepsy and drug-resistant epilepsy reported the lowest quality of life across all 6 measures, and this persisted after adjustment for comorbid conditions and in further linear analyses .

Among those with posttraumatic epilepsy, drug-resistant epilepsy prevalence was significantly higher than prevalence of nontraumatic epilepsies . posttraumatic epilepsy was also associated with higher burden of comorbidity and worse overall quality of life compared to nontraumatic epilepsies . People with posttraumatic epilepsy are distinctly vulnerable to the comorbid conditions associated with traumatic brain injury and epilepsy . This at-risk group should be the focus of future studies aimed at elucidating the factors associated with adverse health outcomes and developing antiepileptogenic therapies .
