The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services enables the description of Web-based services, such that The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services -RRB- can be discovered, accessed and composed dynamically by other Web services thereby facilitating the coordination between distributed, heterogeneous systems on the Web.
The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services enables the description of Web-based services, such that The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services -RRB- can be discovered, accessed and composed dynamically by intelligent software agents thereby facilitating the coordination between distributed, heterogeneous systems on the Web.
The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services enables the description of Web-based services, such that The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services -RRB- can be discovered, accessed and composed dynamically by intelligent software agents thereby facilitating the coordination between distributed, heterogeneous systems on the Web.
The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services enables the description of Web-based services, such that The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services -RRB- can be discovered, accessed and composed dynamically by other Web services thereby facilitating the coordination between distributed, heterogeneous systems on the Web.
Services which incorporates subtype polymorphism.
We propose a formalised an initial reference semantics for The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services.
We propose a formalised syntax for Services.
The semantics we describe is derived from the semantics for Erlang Haskell.
The semantics we describe is derived from the semantics for Concurrent Haskell.
an alternate semantics proposed for The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services, based on the situation calculus.
We contrast The semantics we describe with an alternate semantics.
an alternate semantics proposed for The DARPA Agent Markup Language ontology for Services, based on Petri nets.