The work on integrating sources in the Semantic Web assumes that the source data is either already represented in OWL.
The work on integrating sources in the Semantic Web assumes that the source data is either already represented in RDF.
The work on integrating services in the Semantic Web assumes that the source data is available through a Semantic Web Service.
The work on integrating services in the Semantic Web assumes that the source data is either already represented in RDF.
The work on integrating sources in the Semantic Web assumes that the source data is available through a Semantic Web Service.
The work on integrating services in the Semantic Web assumes that the source data is either already represented in OWL.
In practice, there is a tremendous amount of data on the Web.
the Web that is not available through the Semantic Web.
In this paper we present an approach to automatically discover and create new Semantic Web Services.
The idea behind an approach is to start with a set of the corresponding semantic descriptions extract the source data, build semantic descriptions of the sources, and then turn similar sources into Semantic Web Services.
The idea behind an approach is to discover similar sources extract the source data, build semantic descriptions of the sources, and then turn similar sources into Semantic Web Services.
The idea behind an approach is to start with a set of known sources extract the source data, build semantic descriptions of the sources, and then turn similar sources into Semantic Web Services.
a system called Deimos.
We implemented an end-to-end solution to this problem in a system.
a system called Deimos across five different domains.
We evaluated a system.
The results demonstrate that a system can automatically discover.
The results demonstrate that a system can automatically build Semantic Web Services with only example sources descriptions as input.
The results demonstrate that a system can automatically build Semantic only example sources descriptions as input.
a system called Deimos.
The results demonstrate that a system can automatically learn semantic descriptions.