Cerebral cortical microinfarcts are a novel MRI marker of cerebrovascular disease that predicts accelerated cognitive decline . Presence of Cerebral cortical microinfarcts is known to be associated with global cortical atrophy, although the mechanism linking the two is unclear . Our primary objective was to examine the relation between Cerebral cortical microinfarcts and cortical atrophy and to establish possible perilesional atrophy surrounding Cerebral cortical microinfarcts . Our secondary objective was to examine the role of cortical atrophy in Cerebral cortical microinfarct-associated cognitive impairment .

Patients were recruited from 2 Singapore memory clinics between December 2010 and September 2013 and included if they received the diagnosis no objective cognitive impairment, cognitive impairment, or Alzheimer or vascular dementia. Cortical thickness, chronic Cerebral cortical microinfarcts, and MRI markers of cerebrovascular disease were assessed on 3T MRI . Patients underwent cognitive testing . Cortical thickness was compared globally between patients with and without Cerebral cortical microinfarcts, regionally within individual patients with Cerebral cortical microinfarcts comparing brain regions with Cerebral cortical microinfarcts to the corresponding contralateral region without Cerebral cortical microinfarcts, and locally within individuals patients in a 50-mm radius of Cerebral cortical microinfarcts . Global cortical thickness was analyzed as mediator in the relation between Cerebral cortical microinfarct and cognitive performance .

Of the 238 patients enrolled, 75 had at least 1 Cerebral cortical microinfarct. Patient with Cerebral cortical microinfarcts had a 2.1 percent lower global cortical thickness compared to patients without Cerebral cortical microinfarcts, after correction for age, sex, education, and intracranial volume . In patients with Cerebral cortical microinfarcts, cortical thickness in brain regions with Cerebral cortical microinfarcts was 2.2 percent lower than in contralateral regions without Cerebral cortical microinfarcts . In a 20-mm radius area surrounding the Cerebral cortical microinfarct core, cortical thickness was lower than in the area 20 to 50 mm from the Cerebral cortical microinfarct core . Global cortical thickness was a significant mediator in the relationship between Cerebral cortical microinfarct presence and cognitive performance as measure with the Mini-Mental State Examination .

We found cortical atrophy surrounding Cerebral cortical microinfarcts, suggesting a perilesional effect in a cortical area many times larger than the Cerebral cortical microinfarct core . Our findings support the notion that Cerebral cortical microinfarcts affect brain structure beyond the actual lesion site .

