To investigate brain regional white matter development in full-term and very preterm children at term equivalent and 7 and 13 years of age based on the ratio of T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI, including whether longitudinal changes differ between birth groups or sexes, associations with perinatal risk factors in very preterm children, and relationships with neurodevelopmental outcomes at 13 years .

Prospective longitudinal cohort study of very preterm and full-term infants born between 2001 and 2004 and followed up at term equivalent and 7 and 13 years of age, including MRI studies and neurodevelopmental assessments. T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI images were parcellated into 48 white matter regions of interest .

Of 224 very preterm participants and 76 full-term participants, 197 very preterm and 55 full-term participants had useable T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI data from at least one timepoint . T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI values increased between term equivalent and 13 years of age, with little evidence that longitudinal changes varied between birth groups or sexes . very preterm birth, neonatal brain abnormalities, being small for gestational age, and postnatal infection were associated with reduced regional T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI values in childhood and adolescence . Increased T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI values across the white matter at 13 years were associated with better motor and working memory function for all children . Within the full-term group only, larger increases in T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI values from term equivalent to 7 years were associated with poorer attention and executive function, and higher T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI values at 7 years were associated with poorer mathematics performance .

very preterm birth and multiple known perinatal risk factors are associated with long-term reductions in the T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI ratio in white matter regions in childhood and adolescence, which may relate to alterations in microstructure and myelin content . Increased T1-weighted and T2-weighted MRI ratio at 13 years appeared to be associated with better motor and working memory function and there appeared to be developmental differences between very preterm and full-term children in the associations for attention, executive functioning, and mathematics performance .

