the challenges facing the ontology alignment community.
User validation is one of the challenges as there are limits to the quality of automated alignment algorithms.
ontology alignments that encompasses three interrelated aspects.
ontology alignments that encompasses the profile of the user.
ontology alignments that encompasses three distinct aspects.
In this paper we present a broad study on user validation of ontology alignments.
ontology alignments that encompasses the alignment system user interface.
ontology alignments that encompasses the services of the alignment system.
We discuss the profile of the user and provide an overview of how current systems address its user interface.
We discuss the services of the alignment system and provide an overview of how current systems address the services of the alignment system.
We discuss key issues and provide an overview of how current systems address its user interface.
We discuss key issues and provide an overview of how current systems address three interrelated aspects.
We discuss the profile of the user and provide an overview of how current systems address the profile of the user.
We discuss the services of the alignment system and provide an overview of how current systems address three interrelated aspects.
We discuss its user interface and provide an overview of how current systems address the services of the alignment system.
We discuss the profile of the user and provide an overview of how current systems address the services of the alignment system.
We discuss its user interface and provide an overview of how current systems address three interrelated aspects.
We discuss key issues and provide an overview of how current systems address three distinct aspects.
We discuss key issues and provide an overview of how current systems address the services of the alignment system.
We discuss the services of the alignment system and provide an overview of how current systems address the profile of the user.
key issues pertaining to the alignment validation process under each of three interrelated aspects.
We discuss its user interface and provide an overview of how current systems address its user interface.
We discuss its user interface and provide an overview of how current systems address three distinct aspects.
We discuss the profile of the user and provide an overview of how current systems address three interrelated aspects.
We discuss the services of the alignment system and provide an overview of how current systems address its user interface.
We discuss key issues and provide an overview of how current systems address the profile of the user.
key issues pertaining to the alignment validation process under each of three distinct aspects.
We discuss the profile of the user and provide an overview of how current systems address three distinct aspects.
We discuss the services of the alignment system and provide an overview of how current systems address three distinct aspects.
We discuss its user interface and provide an overview of how current systems address the profile of the user.
Finally, We use experiments from the Interactive Matching track of the Ontology Alignment Evaluation Initiative ( OAEI ) 2015 to assess the impact of errors in alignment validation.
Finally, We use experiments from the Interactive Matching track of the Ontology Alignment Evaluation Initiative ( OAEI ) how systems cope with systems as function of systems services.