Automated composition of the process of forming new value added Web services is one of the most promising challenges in the semantic Web service research area.
Automated composition of Web services added Web services is one of the most promising challenges in the semantic Web service research area.
services that can be shared.
Semantics is one of the key elements for the automated composition of Web services because such a process requires rich machine-understandable descriptions of services.
Semantics enables Web service to describe Web service capabilities and processes, nevertheless there is still some work to be done.
Web services described at functional level.
Indeed Web services need a formal context to perform the automated composition of Web services.
The suggested model ) is a necessary starting point to apply problem-solving techniques such as regression-based search for Web service composition.
i.e., Causal link matrix ) is a necessary starting point to apply problem-solving techniques such as regression-based search for Web service composition.
i.e., Causal link matrix -RRB- supports a semantic context in order to find a optimal plan as a solution.
i.e., Causal link matrix -RRB- supports a semantic context in order to find a complete plan as a solution.
i.e., Causal link matrix -RRB- supports a semantic context in order to find a correct plan as a solution.
i.e., Causal link matrix -RRB- supports a semantic context in order to find a consistent plan as a solution.
The suggested model -RRB- supports a semantic context in order to find a complete plan as a solution.
The suggested model -RRB- supports a semantic context in order to find a correct plan as a solution.
The suggested model -RRB- supports a semantic context in order to find a consistent plan as a solution.
The suggested model -RRB- supports a semantic context in order to find a optimal plan as a solution.
In this paper an innovative model for an AI planning-oriented composition is presented.
In this paper an formal model for an AI planning-oriented composition is presented.