Over the last years the Web of Data has developed into a large compendium of interlinked data sets from multiple domains.
Due to the decentralised architecture of this compendium, several of the Web of Data contain duplicated data.
Yet, so far, only little attention has been paid to the effect of duplicated data on federated querying.
This work presents DAW .
This work presents a novel duplicate-aware approach to federated querying over the Web of Data.
DAW is based on a combination of compact data summaries.
DAW is based on a combination of min-wise independent permutations.
a novel duplicate-aware approach to federated querying over the Web of Data is based on a combination of compact data summaries.
a novel duplicate-aware approach to federated querying over the Web of Data is based on a combination of min-wise independent permutations.
It can be directly combined with existing federated query engines in order to achieve the same query recall values while querying fewer data sources.
We extend three well-known federated query processing engines– SPLENDID.
We extend three well-known federated query processing engines– FedX– with DAW.
We extend three well-known federated query processing engines– DARQ.
We extend three well-known federated query processing engines compare We extensions with the original approaches.
queries sent to the endpoints.
The comparison shows that DAW can greatly reduce the number of queries while keeping high query recall values.
The comparison shows that a novel duplicate-aware approach to federated querying over the Web of Data can greatly reduce the number of queries while keeping high query recall values.
Therefore, It can significantly improve the performance of federated query processing engines.
Moreover, a novel duplicate-aware approach to federated querying over the Web of Data provides a source selection mechanism.
Moreover, DAW provides a source selection mechanism.
a source selection mechanism that maximises the query recall.
the query recall when the query processing is limited to a subset of the sources.