Detecting, much less understanding is challenging for ontology engineers due, in part, to the possibility of complex, non-local logic effects of axiom changes.
two description logic based ontologies.
Detecting, the difference between two description logic is challenging for ontology engineers due, in part, to the possibility of complex, non-local logic effects of axiom changes.
concepts meaning altered by a change.
First, it is often quite difficult to even determine which concepts have had concepts.
Second, once a concept change is pinpointed, the problem of distinguishing whether the concept is directly affected by a change has yet to be tackled.
Second, once a concept change is pinpointed, the problem of distinguishing whether the concept is indirectly affected by a change has yet to be tackled.
To address the first issue, various principled notions of “ semantic diff ” ( based on deductive inseparability ) have been proposed in the literature.
To address the first issue, various principled notions of “ semantic diff ” ( based on deductive inseparability ) have been shown to be computationally practical for the expressively restricted case of ELHr-terminologies.
However, problems arise even for such limited logics as ALC: First, computation gets more difficult, becoming undecidable for logics such as SROIQ the Web Ontology Language.
SROIQ which underly.
Second, the presence of disjunction make the standard semantic difference too sensitive to change: essentially, any logically effectual change always affects all terms in the ontology.
Second, the presence of negation make the standard semantic difference too sensitive to change: essentially, any logically effectual change always affects all terms in the ontology.
In order to tackle these issues, we formulate the central notion of finding the minimal change set based on model inseparability.
changes which are specific to ( thus directly affect ).
present a method to differentiate changes particular concept names.
Subsequently we devise a series of computable approximations.
compare the variously approximated change sets over a series of versions of the NCI Thesaurus.