We introduce SRBench , completely based on real-world data sets from the Linked Open Data cloud.
We introduce a general-purpose benchmark primarily designed for streaming RDFSPARQL engines, completely based on real-world data sets from the Linked Open Data cloud.
With enough tools to gain knowledge from too much streaming data researchers have set out for solutions.
With the increasing problem of too much streaming data researchers have set out for solutions.
solutions in which Semantic Web technologies are adapted for publishing, sharing, understanding streaming data.
solutions in which Semantic Web technologies are extended for publishing, sharing, understanding streaming data.
solutions in which Semantic Web technologies are extended for publishing, sharing, analysing streaming data.
solutions in which Semantic Web technologies are adapted for publishing, sharing, analysing streaming data.
To help users comparing streaming RDFSPARQL ) engines in a standardised application scenario, we have designed SRBench.
SRBench with which one can assess the abilities of a strRS engine to cope with a broad range of use cases typically encountered in real-world scenarios.
To help researchers comparing strRS ) engines in a standardised application scenario, we have designed SRBench.
To help researchers comparing streaming RDFSPARQL ) engines in a standardised application scenario, we have designed SRBench.
To help users comparing strRS ) engines in a standardised application scenario, we have designed SRBench.
The data sets used in the benchmark.
The data sets have been carefully chosen, such that The data sets represent a realistic usage of streaming data.
The data sets have been carefully chosen, such that The data sets represent a relevant usage of streaming data.
The data sets used in the benchmark.
queries that cover the major aspects of strRS processing.
the benchmark defines a concise, yet comprehensive set of queries.
Finally, We work is complemented with a functional evaluation on three representative strRS engines: CQELS.
Finally, We work is complemented with a functional evaluation on three representative strRS engines: SPARQLStream.
Finally, We work is complemented with a functional evaluation on three representative strRS engines: C-SPARQL.
The presented results are meant to give a first baseline.
The presented results illustrate the state-of-the-art.