Delayed cerebral ischemia is the leading complication of subarachnoid hemorrhage . Because Delayed cerebral ischemia was traditionally thought to be caused by large vessel vasospasm, transcranial Doppler ultrasounds have been the standard of care . Continuous EEG has emerged as a promising complementary monitoring modality and predicts increpileptiform abnormalitiesed Delayed cerebral ischemia risk . Our objective was to determine whether combining EEG and transcranial Doppler ultrasound data improves prediction of Delayed cerebral ischemia after subarachnoid hemorrhage . We hypothesize that integrating these diagnostic modalities improves Delayed cerebral ischemia prediction .

We retrospectively assessed patients with moderate to severe subarachnoid hemorrhage who had both prospective transcranial Doppler ultrasound and EEG acquisition during hospitalization . Middle cerebral artery peak systolic velocities and the presence or absence of epileptiform abnormalities, defined as seizures, epileptiform discharges, rhythmic activity, and periodic activity, were recorded daily . Logistic regressions were used to identify significant covariates of epileptiform abnormalities and transcranial Doppler ultrasound to predict Delayed cerebral ischemia . Group-based trajectory modeling was used to account for changes over time by identifying distinct group trajectories of Middle cerebral artery peak systolic velocities and epileptiform abnormalities associated with Delayed cerebral ischemia risk .

We assessed 107 patients. Delayed cerebral ischemia developed in 56 . Univariate predictors of Delayed cerebral ischemia are presence of high-Middle cerebral artery velocity and epileptiform abnormalities on or before day 3. Two univariate Group-based trajectory modeling trajectories of epileptiform abnormalities predicted Delayed cerebral ischemia . Logistic regression and Group-based trajectory modeling models using both transcranial Doppler ultrasound and EEG monitoring performed better . The best logistic regression and Group-based trajectory modeling models used both transcranial Doppler ultrasound and EEG data, Hunt-Hess score at admission, and aneurysm treatment as predictors of Delayed cerebral ischemia .

EEG and transcranial Doppler ultrasound biomarkers combined provide the best prediction of Delayed cerebral ischemia . The conjunction of clinical variables with the timing of epileptiform abnormalities and high Middle cerebral artery velocities improved model performance . These results suggest that transcranial Doppler ultrasound and cEEG are promising complementary monitoring modalities for Delayed cerebral ischemia prediction . Our model has potential to serve as a decision support tool in subarachnoid hemorrhage management .

This study provides Class II evidence that combined transcranial Doppler ultrasound and EEG monitoring can identify delayed cerebral ischemia after subarachnoid hemorrhage .

