 Neuroimaging studies suggest that changes in the cerebellar-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical sensorimotor circuit are a pathophysiologic feature of focal dystonia . However, it remains unclear whether structural and functional alterations vary in different forms of focal dystonia . Thus, in patients with cervical dystonia and blepharospasm, we aimed to investigate structural damage and resting-state functional alterations using whole-brain and seed-based approaches to test the hypothesis of possible functional connectivity alterations in specific circuits, including the cerebellum, basal ganglia, and cerebral cortex, in the context of preserved global functional connectivity .

In this cross-sectional study, we applied a multimodal 3T MRI protocol, including 3-dimensional T1-weighted images to extract brain volumes and cortical thickness, and fMRI at rest to study functional connectivity of the dentate nucleus and globus pallidus with a seed-based approach and whole-brain functional connectivity with a graph theory approach .

This study included 33 patients and 16 age-matched and sex-matched healthy controls 54.3 years of age . Patients with cervical dystonia, patients with blepharospasm, and healthy controls did not differ in terms of cortical or subcortical volume . Compared to healthy controls, both patients with cervical dystonia and patients with blepharospasm had a loss of dentate functional connectivity anticorrelation with the sensorimotor cortex . Patients with cervical dystonia and those with blepharospasm showed increased pallidal functional connectivity with the cerebellum, supplementary motor area, and prefrontal cortices with respect to healthy controls . Increased dentate functional connectivity with the cerebellum and thalamus and increased pallidal functional connectivity with the bilateral thalamus, sensorimotor and temporo-occipital cortices, and right putamen were present in patients with cervical dystonia but not patients with blepharospasm compared to healthy controls . Measures of global functional connectivity, that is, global efficiency and small-worldness, did not differ between patients and healthy controls .

Both patients with cervical dystonia and those with blepharospasm showed altered dentate and pallidal functional connectivity with regions belonging to the integrated cerebellar-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical sensorimotor circuit, supporting the concept that focal dystonia is a disorder of specific networks and not merely a result of basal ganglia alterations in the context of a preserved whole-brain functional architecture . Differences in functional interplay among specific brain structures may distinguish cervical dystonia and blepharospasm .
