Ontologies are the building blocks of the Semantic Web initiative.
automated reasoning are the building blocks of the Semantic Web initiative.
Derivation rules can be included in an ontology to define derived concepts based on base concepts.
a class or property based on a complex relation between the extensions of the other classes and properties.
a class or property based on a complex relation between the extensions of the same classes and properties.
For example, rules allow to define the extension of a class or property.
On the other hand, the inclusion of negative information is also needed to enable various forms of reasoning.
On the other hand, the inclusion in the form of explicit negative information is also needed to enable various forms of reasoning.
On the other hand, the inclusion in the form of negation-as-failure is also needed to enable various forms of reasoning.
In this paper, we extend RDF graphs with weak negation.
In this paper, we extend derivation rules.
In this paper, we extend RDF graphs with strong negation.
The ERDF stable model semantics of the extended framework is defined, extending RDF semantics.
our theory which is based on partial logic.
A distinctive feature of our theory is that both falsity extensions of properties are considered, allowing for truth value gaps.
A distinctive feature of our theory is that both truth are considered, allowing for truth value gaps.
A distinctive feature of our theory is that both falsity extensions of classes are considered, allowing for truth value gaps.
Our framework supports both closed-world reasoning through the ERDF ontological categories of total classes.
Our framework supports both open-world reasoning through the ERDF ontological categories of total classes.
Our framework supports both open-world reasoning through the explicit representation of the particular closed-world assumptions.
Our framework supports both closed-world reasoning through the explicit representation of the particular closed-world assumptions.
Our framework supports both open-world reasoning through the ERDF ontological categories of total properties.
Our framework supports both closed-world reasoning through the ERDF ontological categories of total properties.