a new all other geospatial RDF store that supports the state of the art semantic geospatial query languages stSPARQL.
a new all other geospatial RDF store that supports the state of the art semantic geospatial query languages GeoSPARQL.
We present Strabon, a new all other geospatial RDF store.
the expressive power offered by the art the art semantic geospatial a new RDF store semantic geospatial query languages GeoSPARQL.
the expressive power offered by the art semantic geospatial query languages GeoSPARQL stSPARQL.
To illustrate the expressive power we concentrate on the new version of the query language stSPARQL that we have developed we.
the expressive power offered by the art semantic geospatial query languages stSPARQL stSPARQL.
the expressive power offered by the art the art semantic geospatial query languages GeoSPARQL implementation in Strabon semantic geospatial query languages GeoSPARQL.
the expressive power offered by the art the art semantic geospatial query languages stSPARQL implementation in Strabon semantic geospatial query languages GeoSPARQL.
the expressive power offered by the art the art semantic geospatial query languages GeoSPARQL implementation in Strabon semantic geospatial query languages stSPARQL.
the expressive power offered by the art the art semantic geospatial query languages stSPARQL implementation in Strabon semantic geospatial query languages stSPARQL.
the expressive power offered by the art the art semantic geospatial a new RDF store semantic geospatial query languages stSPARQL.
the expressive power offered by the art semantic geospatial query languages stSPARQL GeoSPARQL.
To illustrate the expressive power we concentrate on the new version of the data model stRDF that we have developed we.
the expressive power offered by the art semantic geospatial query languages GeoSPARQL GeoSPARQL.
a new RDF store that supports the state of the art.
Like GeoSPARQL, these new versions use OGC standards to represent geometries where the original versions used linear constraints.
we show that the performance of Strabon experimentally scales to very large data volumes most of the times, better than all other geospatial RDF stores the performance of Strabon experimentally has been compared with.
we show that the performance of Strabon performs most of the times, better than all other geospatial RDF stores the performance of Strabon experimentally has been compared with.
we study the performance of Strabon experimentally most of the times, better than all other geospatial RDF stores the performance of Strabon experimentally has been compared with.