Services that can be created from online sources by using existing annotation tools.
Services that can be created from online sources by using efficient approaches to solve the service selection problem.
Services that can be created from online sources by using scalable approaches to solve the service selection problem.
Services that can be created from online sources by using expressive formalisms.
Services that can be created from online sources by using existing annotation tools widely available to the users.
Given the large number of Semantic Web Services are required to make the large number of Semantic Web Services.
a framework that is grounded on the Local-As-View approach for representing instances of the service selection problem.
In this paper, we propose a framework.
a framework that is grounded on logic for representing instances of the service selection problem.
user requests correspond to conjunctive queries on the generic concepts.
In we approach, Web services are semantically described using LAV mappings in terms of generic concepts from an ontology.
preferences that are used to rank the possible solutions to the given request.
, in addition, the user may specify a set of preferences.
a query rewriting problem that must consider the relationships among the ranks.
the ranks induced by the preferences.
a query rewriting problem that must consider the relationships among the concepts in the ontology.
The LAV formulation allows us to cast the service selection problem as a query rewriting problem.
preferences whose best models are in correspondence with the best-ranked solutions.
Then, building on related work, we devise an encoding of the resulting query rewriting problem as a logical theory whose models are in correspondence in presence of preferences.
Then, building on related work, we devise an encoding of the resulting query rewriting problem as a logical theory whose models are in correspondence with the solutions of the user request.
Thus, by exploiting known properties of modern SAT solvers, we provide an efficient solution to the service selection problem.
Thus, by exploiting known properties of modern SAT solvers, we provide an scalable solution to the service selection problem.
The approach provides the basis to represent a large number of interesting user requests.
The approach provides the basis to represent a large number of real-world situations.