We study the problem of evolution for Knowledge Bases.
Knowledge Bases expressed in Description Logics of the Description Logic  Lite family.
Description Logic  Lite is at the basis of OWL 2 QL, one of the tractable fragments of OWL 2 .
Description Logic  Lite is at the basis of OWL 2 QL, one of the tractable fragments of the recently proposed revision of the Web Ontology Language.
We propose some fundamental principles that Knowledge Base evolution should respect.
We review known model for evolution of propositional theories.
We review formula-based approaches for evolution of propositional theories.
We exhibit limitations of a number of model-based approaches: besides the fact that a number of model-based approaches are either not expressed in Description Logic  Lite a number of model-based approaches intrinsically ignore the structural properties of Knowledge Bases.
Knowledge Bases resulting from such an evolution.
Knowledge Bases which leads to undesired properties of Knowledge Bases.
We exhibit limitations of a number of model-based approaches: besides the fact that a number of model-based approaches are either hard to compute a number of model-based approaches intrinsically ignore the structural properties of Knowledge Bases.
Description Logic Knowledge Bases that discuss the model-based approaches drawbacks.
We also examine proposals on update.
Description Logic Knowledge Bases that adopt the model-based approaches.
We also examine proposals on revision of Description Logic Knowledge Bases.
We show because the result of such an action of evolution is not expressed in Description Logic  Lite.
We show that known formula-based approaches are also due to high complexity of computation.
We show that known formula-based approaches are also not appropriate for Description Logic  Lite evolution.
Building upon the insights gained, we propose two novel formula-based approaches for which evolution is expressed in Description Logic  Lite.
Building upon the insights gained, we propose two novel formula-based approaches that respect we principles.
For We approaches We also developed polynomial time algorithms to compute evolution of Description Logic  Lite Knowledge Bases.