The Semantic Web promises to change the way agents navigate.
The Semantic Web promises to change the way agents utilize information on the internet.
The Semantic Web promises to change the way agents harvest.
By providing a it is now possible for agents to reason about published knowledge without centralized ontologies.
By providing a it is now possible for agents to read without the need for scrapers.
a structured, distributed representation for expressing relationships.
By providing a it is now possible for agents to read without information agents.
By providing a it is now possible for agents to read without centralized ontologies.
By providing a it is now possible for agents to reason about published knowledge without the need for scrapers.
concepts defined by multiple ontologies.
a structured, distributed representation for expressing concepts.
By providing a it is now possible for agents to reason about published knowledge without information agents.
relationships defined by multiple ontologies.
Agents can utilize this knowledge to seek other agents thus supporting navigation across The Semantic Web.
Agents can utilize this knowledge to invoke other agents thus supporting navigation across The Semantic Web.
Agents can utilize this knowledge to seek web services thus supporting navigation across The Semantic Web.
Agents can utilize this knowledge to invoke web services thus supporting navigation across The Semantic Web.
the DMA2ICal Translation Agent which provides translation services between schedules.
We demonstrate how agents support a Conference Agent.
We demonstrate how agents support the DMA2ICal Translation Agent.
schedules grounded in different ontologies.
We demonstrate how agents support the RETSINA Calendar Agent.
We demonstrate how agents support enhanced navigation within present three agent-based services.
the RETSINA Calendar Agent which reasons about schedules marked up on The Semantic Web.
a Conference Agent that invokes the Calendar Agent.
We demonstrate how agents support enhanced navigation within a conference-schedule domain.