Brain arteriovenous malformation is a congenital disorder and a leading cause of hemorrhagic stroke . Germline genetic variants play an essential role in the pathogenesis of Brain arteriovenous malformation . However, the biological relevance of disease-associated genes identified in previous studies is elusive . In this study, we aim to systematically investigate the contribution of germline variants to Brain arteriovenous malformation and explore the critical molecular pathways underlying the pathogenesis of Brain arteriovenous malformation .

Probands with sporadic Brain arteriovenous malformation were consecutively recruited into this study from November 2015 to November 2018 and underwent exome sequencing . The controls were aggregated from individuals who were not known to have vascular malformation and underwent exome sequencing for clinical or research purposes . The retained control dataset included 4,609 individuals, including 251 individuals with parental samples sequenced . We first analyzed de novo variants in cases and controls and performed a pathway enrichment analysis . A gene-based rare variant association analysis was then performed to identify genes whose variants were significantly enriched in cases .

We collected an exome-sequenced Brain arteriovenous malformation cohort consisting of 152 trios and 40 singletons . By first focusing on de novo variants, we observed a significant mutational burden of likely gene-disrupting variants in cases vs controls . By performing a pathway enrichment analysis of all nonsynonymous de novo variants identified in cases, we found the angiopoietin-like protein 8 regulatory pathway to be significantly enriched in patients with Brain arteriovenous malformation . Through an exome-wide rare variant association analysis utilizing 4,394 in-house exome data as controls, we identified SLC19A3 as a disease-associated gene for Brain arteriovenous malformation . In addition, we found that the SLC19A3 variants in cases are preferably located at the N side of the SLC19A3 protein . These findings implicate a phenotypic expansion of SLC19A3-related disorders with a domain-specific effect .

This study provides insights into the biological basis of Brain arteriovenous malformation by identifying novel molecular pathways and candidate genes .
