The presence of postinterventional subarachnoid hyperdensities is a relatively common finding after mechanical thrombectomy . We aimed to assess the incidence, characteristics, clinical relevance, and predictors of subarachnoid hyperdensities after mechanical thrombectomy as categorized through the use of postinterventional dual-energy CT .

A single-center consecutive series of patients with acute stroke treated with mechanical thrombectomy was retrospectively reviewed . Posttreatment subarachnoid hyperdensities were defined as incident extraaxial hyperdensities in a follow-up dual-energy CT performed within a median of 8 hours after mechanical thrombectomy . subarachnoid hyperdensities were further classified according to their content and extension . Adjusted logistic regression models assessed the association of subarachnoid hyperdensities with pretreatment and procedural variables and with poor clinical outcome .

subarachnoid hyperdensities were observed in 120 of the 424 included patients . In this group, subarachnoid hyperdensities were diffuse in 72 patients and nondiffuse in 48 patients . Diffuse subarachnoid hyperdensities were significantly associated with worse clinical outcome in adjusted models, unlike the specific subarachnoid hyperdensities content alone . In contrast with the absence of subarachnoid hyperdensities, only the diffuse pattern with blood extravasation was significantly associated with worse clinical outcome . Diffuse subarachnoid hyperdensities patterns were predicted by M2 occlusions, more thrombectomy passes, and concurrent parenchymal hematomas .

In our cohort of patients imaged within a median of 8 hours after mechanical thrombectomy, postinterventional subarachnoid hyperdensities showed a diffuse pattern in 17 percent of thrombectomies and were associated with more arduous procedures . Diffuse subarachnoid hyperdensities but not local collections of blood or contrast extravasations were associated with an increased risk of poor outcome and death . These findings reinforce the need for improvement in reperfusion strategies .

This study provides Class IV evidence that in individuals with proximal carotid artery territory occlusions treated with mechanical thrombectomy, diffuse postinterventional subarachnoid hyperdensities on imaging 8 hours postprocedure are associated with worse clinical outcomes at 90 days .

