Linking Open Data is the largest community effort for semantic data publishing.
semantic data publishing which converts the Web from a Web of document to a Web of interlinked knowledge.
While the state of the Open Data contains billion of triples the state of the art Open Data is lack of schema-level axioms.
triples describing millions of entities.
While the state of the Open Data contains billion of triples the state of the art Open Data has only a limited number of schema information.
To close the gap between the expressive ontologies we contribute to the complementary part of the Open Data, that is, Linking Open Schema.
To close the gap between the Open Data we contribute to the complementary part of the Open Data, that is, Linking Open Schema.
In this paper, we introduce Zhishi.schema .
In this paper, we introduce the first effort to publish Chinese linked open schema.
We collect navigational categories from more than 50 various most popular social Web sites in China.
We collect dynamic tags from more than 50 various most popular social Web sites in China.
the collected categories and tags which results in an integrated concept taxonomy.
We then relate relationships between the collected categories and tags.
We then propose a two-stage method to capture equivalence, subsumption.
the collected categories and tags which results in a large semantic network.
Experimental results show the high quality of Zhishi.schema.
Compared with category systems of DBpedia Zhishi.schema has wide coverage of categories.
Compared with category systems of Yago Zhishi.schema has wide coverage of categories.
Compared with category systems of BabelNet Zhishi.schema has wide coverage of categories.
Compared with category systems of BabelNet Zhishi.schema contains the largest number of subsumptions between categories.
Compared with category systems of Freebase Zhishi.schema contains the largest number of subsumptions between categories.
Compared with category systems of Freebase Zhishi.schema has wide coverage of categories.
Compared with category systems of DBpedia Zhishi.schema contains the largest number of subsumptions between categories.
Compared with category systems of Yago Zhishi.schema contains the largest number of subsumptions between categories.
When substituting Zhishi.schema for the original category system of Zhishi.me, we not only filter out incorrect category subsumptions but also add more finer-grained categories.