The success of the Semantic Web hinges on being able to produce semantic markups on semantic markups components in a way.
a way that is consistent with adopted schemas.
The success of the Semantic Web hinges on being able to produce semantic markups on Web pages in a way.
a way that is cost-effective with ontologies.
a way that is consistent with ontologies.
a way that is cost-effective with adopted schemas.
Since images are an essential component of the Semantic Web, this work focuses on an intelligent approach to semantic annotation of images.
We propose a three-layer architecture.
the middle layer which are then connected to schemas on the top layer.
a three-layer architecture in which the bottom layer organizes visual information.
visual information extracted from the raw image contents.
the middle layer which are then connected to ontologies on the top layer.
the raw image contents which are mapped to semantically meaningful keywords in the middle layer.
We key contribution is the use of machine learning algorithms for user-assisted, semi-automatic image annotation, in such a way that the knowledge of previously annotated images– both at metadata is used to improve future query and retrieval of annotated images.
We key contribution is the use of machine learning algorithms for user-assisted, semi-automatic image annotation, in such a way that the knowledge of previously annotated images– both at visual levels is used to speed up the annotation of subsequent images within the same domain.
We key contribution is the use of machine learning algorithms for user-assisted, semi-automatic image annotation, in such a way that the knowledge of previously annotated images– both at visual levels is used to improve future query and retrieval of annotated images.
We key contribution is the use of machine learning algorithms for user-assisted, semi-automatic image annotation, in such a way that the knowledge of previously annotated images– both at metadata is used to speed up the annotation of subsequent images within the same domain.