The identification of possible hippocampal alterations is a crucial point for the diagnosis and therapy of patients with unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy . This study aims to investigate the role of neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging compared to diffusion tensor imaging in the comprehension of hippocampal microstructure in temporal lobe epilepsy .

diffusion tensor imaging and neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging metrics were calculated in the hippocampi of adult patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, with and without histology-confirmed hippocampal sclerosis, and in age and sex-matched healthy controls . Diffusion metrics and hippocampal volumes of the pathologic side were compared within participants and between participants among the hippocampal sclerosis, non-hippocampal sclerosis, and healthy controls groups . Diffusion metrics were also correlated with hippocampal volume and patients clinical features . After surgery, hippocampal specimens were processed for neuropathology examinations .

Fifteen patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and 11 healthy controls were included . Hippocampal analyses resulted in a significant increase in fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity and decrease in orientation dispersion index comparing the pathologic side of patients with hippocampal sclerosis and their relative nonpathologic side, the pathologic side of patients without hippocampal sclerosis, and healthy controls . Moreover, neurite density was significantly decreased comparing both hippocampi of patients with hippocampal sclerosis . A significant increase in free-water isotropic volume fraction was found in the comparison of pathologic hippocampi of patients with hippocampal sclerosis and nonpathologic hippocampi of patients with hippocampal sclerosis and healthy controls . Hippocampal volume of all patients with temporal lobe epilepsy negatively correlated with Mean Diffusivity and positively correlated with orientation dispersion index . Fiso and neurite density of sclerotic hippocampi positively correlated with disease duration . Immunohistochemistry in sclerotic hippocampal specimens revealed neuronal loss in the pyramidal layer and fiber reorganization at the level of stratum lacunosum-moleculare, confirming orientation dispersion index and neurite density metrics .

Discussion This study shows the capability of diffusion MRI metrics to detect hippocampal microstructural alterations . Among them, orientation dispersion index seems to better highlight the fiber reorganization observed by neuropathology in sclerotic hippocampi .
