Epidemiologic studies have suggested a link between rheumatoid arthritis and Parkinson disease . Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs might explain this association . The aim of this work was to evaluate the association between Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs and risk of Parkinson disease in persons with rheumatoid arthritis .

This nested nationwide case-control study was conducted within the Finnish Parkinson Disease cohort, which includes 22,189 Finnish persons with clinically verified Parkinson disease diagnosed from 1996 to 2015 . The cases had recorded diagnosis of Parkinson disease in the Special Reimbursement Register and had no exclusion diagnoses with symptoms that may be confused with Parkinson disease within 2 years of Parkinson disease diagnosis . This study included cases with Parkinson disease diagnosed during 1999 to 2015 and rheumatoid arthritis diagnosed over 3 years before Parkinson disease . Rheumatoid arthritis was identified from the Finnish Care Register for Health Care and Special Reimbursement Register . Cases were matched with up to 7 controls by age, sex, duration of rheumatoid arthritis, and region . Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs were categorized into 5 classes, and data on purchased prescriptions were identified from the Prescription Register since 1995 . Associations were studied with conditional logistic regression adjusted for confounders .

Altogether, 315 cases with Parkinson disease and 1,571 matched controls were included . The majority were women, and the median duration of rheumatoid arthritis on matching date was 11.6 years for controls and 12.6 years for cases . Use of Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs was not associated with risk of Parkinson disease with a 3-year lag period applied between exposure and outcome except chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, which associated with decreased risk . Other Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including sulfasalazine, methotrexate, gold preparations, and immunosuppressants, were not associated with Parkinson disease .

Our results suggest that the lower risk of Parkinson disease in people with rheumatoid arthritis is not explained by Disease-modifying antirheumatic drug use because these drugs in general did not modify the risk of Parkinson disease among persons with rheumatoid arthritis . Association between chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine with lower risk of Parkinson disease and the possible underlying mechanisms should be further investigated .
