In this paper we investigate different technologies to attack the automatic solution of orchestration problems based on synthesis from declarative specifications.
In this paper we investigate different technologies to attack the automatic solution of orchestration problems based on a semantically enriched description of the services.
In this paper we investigate different technologies to attack the automatic solution of orchestration problems based on a collection of services available on a testbed.
In addition to we previously presented tableaux-based synthesis technology, we consider two structurally rather different approaches here: using jMosel Golog.
In addition to we previously presented tableaux-based synthesis technology, we consider two structurally rather different approaches here: using we tool for Monadic Second-Order Logic on Strings Golog.
In addition to we previously presented tableaux-based synthesis technology, we consider two structurally rather different approaches here: using the high-level programming language Golog.
Golog that internally makes use of planning techniques.
the Semantic Web Service Challenge which is a benchmark for process orchestration.
As a common case study we consider the Mediation Scenario of the Semantic Web Service Challenge.
All three synthesis solutions have been embedded in the jABCjETI modeling framework.
All three synthesis solutions have been used to synthesize the abstract mediator processes concrete, running ( Web ) service counterpart.
All three synthesis solutions have been used to synthesize All three synthesis solutions concrete, running ( Web ) service counterpart.
Using the jABC as a common frame helps highlighting the essential differences and similarities.
the considered case study.
It turns out, at least at the level of complication of the all approaches behave quite similarly, both considering the modeling.
It turns out, at least at the level of complication of the all approaches behave quite similarly, both considering the performance.
technologies answering questing like where ( heuristic ) search is the technology of choice.
solutions answering questing like where ( heuristic ) search is the technology of choice.
We believe that turning the jABC framework into experimentation platform along the lines will help understanding the application profiles of the individual synthesis solutions.
technologies answering questing like when the overhead to achieve compositionality pays of.
the lines presented here.
solutions answering questing like when the overhead to achieve compositionality pays of.
We believe that turning the jABC framework into experimentation platform along the lines will help understanding the application profiles of the individual synthesis technologies.