An important application of semantic web technology is recognizing human-defined concepts in text.
Query transformation is a strategy often used in search engines to derive queries.
queries that are able to return more useful search results than most popular search engines provide facilities.
facilities that let users specify.
queries that are able to return more useful search results than the original query provide facilities.
facilities that let users complete.
facilities that let users reformulate users queries.
semantic concepts contained in user queries.
We study the problem of semantic query suggestion based on identifying semantic concepts.
We study the problem of a special type of query transformation based on identifying semantic concepts.
We use a feature-based approach in conjunction with supervised machine learning, augmenting term-based features with concept-specific features.
We use a feature-based approach in conjunction with supervised machine learning, augmenting term-based features with search history-based.
We apply We method to the task of linking queries from the transaction logs of the Netherlands Institute for Vision ) to the DBpedia knowledge base.
We apply We method to the task of linking queries from the transaction logs of the Netherlands Institute for Sound ) to the DBpedia knowledge base.
We apply We method to the task of linking queries from real-world query logs ) to the DBpedia knowledge base.
We evaluate the utility of different machine learning feature types in identifying semantic concepts using a manually developed test bed.
We evaluate the utility of different machine learning features in identifying semantic concepts using a manually developed test bed.
We show significant improvements over an already high baseline.
We evaluate the utility of different machine learning algorithms in identifying semantic concepts using a manually developed test bed.
queries, extracted features are available for download.
The resources developed for this paper.
queries, human assessments are available for download.