RDF data are usually accessed using one of two methods: either, graphs are rendered in forms perceivable by human users ).
human users ) which are difficult to handle for large data sets.
e.g., in graphical form ) which are difficult to handle for large data sets.
RDF data are usually accessed using one of two methods: either, graphs are rendered in forms perceivable by e.g., in tabular ).
e.g., in tabular ) which are difficult to handle for large data sets.
RDF data are usually accessed using one of two methods: either, graphs are rendered in forms perceivable by e.g., in graphical form ).
Alternatively, query languages like SPARQL provide means to express information needs in structured form; hence query languages like SPARQL are targeted towards developers.
Alternatively, query languages like SPARQL provide means to express information needs in structured form; hence query languages like SPARQL are targeted towards experts.
spreadsheet tools where users can perform relatively complex calculations by splitting formulas and values across multiple cells.
Inspired by the concept of spreadsheet tools we have investigated mechanisms yet formally grounded manner.
mechanisms that allow we to access RDF graphs in a more intuitive and manageable.
In this paper, we make three contributions towards this direction.
First, we present RDFunctions, an algebra contained in a background graph.
an algebra that consists of mappings between sets of RDF language elements ) under consideration of the triples.
an algebra that consists of mappings between sets of blank nodes ) under consideration of the triples.
an algebra that consists of mappings between sets of literals ) under consideration of the triples.
an algebra that consists of mappings between sets of URIs ) under consideration of the triples.
RDFunctions which can be edited, evaluated.
Second, we define a syntax for expressing RDFunctions.
RDFunctions which can be edited, parsed.
RDFunctions using a spreadsheet metaphor.
Third, we discuss Tripcel.
Third, we discuss an implementation of RDFunctions.
Using this tool, users can easily execute function expressions.
Using this tool, users can easily perform analysis tasks on the data.
Using this tool, users can easily edit function expressions.
the data stored in an RDF graph.