The clinical course and outcome of the Guillain-Barré syndrome are diverse and vary among regions . The modified Erasmus Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Score, developed with data from Dutch patients, is a clinical model that predicts the risk of walking inability in patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome . The study objective was to validate the modified Erasmus Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Score in the International Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Study cohort and to improve its performance and region specificity.

We used prospective data from the first 1,500 patients included in International Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Study, aged over 6 years and unable to walk independently . 

For validation of modified Erasmus Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Score at entry, 809 patients were eligible, and 671 for validation of modified Erasmus Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Score at week 1. operating characteristic curve values were over 0.7 in all regional subgroups. In the Europe and North America subgroup, observed outcomes were worse than predicted . In Asia, observed outcomes were better than predicted . Recalibration improved model accuracy and enabled the development of a region-specific version for Europe and North America . Similar to the original modified Erasmus Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Score, severe limb weakness and higher age were the predominant predictors of poor outcome in the International Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Study cohort .

modified Erasmus Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Score is a validated tool to predict the inability to walk unaided at 4 and 26 weeks in patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome, also in countries outside the Netherlands . We developed a region-specific version of modified Erasmus Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Score for patients from Europe and North America.

This study provides Class II evidence that the modified Erasmus Guillain-Barré syndrome Outcome Score accurately predicts the inability to walk unaided at 4 and 26 weeks in patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome .

