To investigate the potential of plasma neurofilament light as a biomarker of disease progression and treatment response in progressive multiple sclerosis with and without acute disease activity .

A post hoc blinded analysis of plasma neurofilament light levels in 2 placebo-controlled, phase 3 studies in secondary progressive multiple sclerosis and primary progressive multiple sclerosis using siponimod and fingolimod, respectively, as active compounds was performed . plasma neurofilament light levels were quantified using a single molecule array immunoassay from stored ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid plasma samples of all patients who consented for exploratory biomarker analysis in either study . plasma neurofilament light levels were divided into high and low at baseline . We investigated the association of plasma neurofilament light levels with disability progression, cognitive decline, and brain atrophy and their sensitivity to indicate treatment response through clinical measures .

Baseline plasma neurofilament light levels were higher in Sprogressive multiple sclerosis than in progressive multiple sclerosis . In both studies, higher baseline plasma neurofilament light levels were associated with older age, higher Expanded Disability Status Scale score, more Gdplus lesions, and higher T2 lesion load . Independent of treatment, high versus low baseline plasma neurofilament light levels were associated with significantly higher risks of confirmed 3-month and 6-month disability progression, earlier wheelchair dependence, cognitive decline, and higher rates of brain atrophy . Baseline plasma neurofilament light levels were associated with future disability progression and the degree of brain atrophy regardless of presence or absence of acute disease activity . plasma neurofilament light levels were lower in patients treated with siponimod or fingolimod vs placebo-treated patients and higher in those having experienced disability progression .

plasma neurofilament light was associated with future clinical and radiologic disability progression features at the group level . plasma neurofilament light was reduced by treatment and may be a meaningful outcome measure in progressive multiple sclerosis studies .
