to quantify the impact of real-world events on online communities.
Automatically detecting i.e., meaning changes ) of single words has recently received strong research attention.
Automatically detecting semantic shifts ) of single words has recently received strong research attention.
These computational approaches have introduced various measures.
various measures which are intended to capture the somewhat elusive and undifferentiated concept of semantic shift.
terms that can replace a word.
terms that typically occur next to a word.
On the other hand, there is a well established distinction in syntagmatic associations ).
On the other hand, there is a longstanding distinction in linguistics between i.e., terms ).
On the other hand, there is a well established distinction in linguistics between a word’s paradigmatic ).
On the other hand, there is a longstanding distinction in linguistics between a word’s paradigmatic ).
On the other hand, there is a longstanding distinction in syntagmatic associations ).
On the other hand, there is a well established distinction in linguistics between i.e., terms ).
On the other hand, there is a well established distinction in i.e., terms ).
On the other hand, there is a longstanding distinction in i.e., terms ).
a method that captures a measure’s sensitivity for paradigmatic andor syntagmatic ( association ) shifts.
In this work, we join these two lines of research by introducing a method.
textual corpora that in turn induce shifts in word embeddings.
word embeddings trained on them.
For this purpose, we perform synthetic distortions on textual corpora.
the Global Semantic Displacement is sensitive to syntagmatic shift in word embeddings.
We find that the Local Neighborhood is sensitive to paradigmatic.
By applying the newly we find examples of words.
the newly validated paradigmatic measures on Amazon, Reddit ).
the newly validated syntagmatic measures on Amazon, Reddit ).
words that undergo paradigmatic shift both at the same time.
the newly validated syntagmatic measures on Amazon, Wikipedia ).
the newly validated paradigmatic measures on three real-world datasets ).
the newly validated paradigmatic measures on Amazon, Wikipedia ).
words that undergo syntagmatic shift both at the same time.
the newly validated syntagmatic measures on three real-world datasets ).
words that undergo syntagmatic shift both separately.
words that undergo paradigmatic shift both separately.
With this more nuanced understanding of semantic shift on word embeddings, we hope to analyze a similar concept of semantic shift on RDF graph embeddings in the future.