Current guidelines recommend the use of mechanical thrombectomy plus IV thrombolysis for patients with anterior circulation large vessel occlusion stroke . However, clinical equipoise exists in relation to the use of Bridging therapy vs mechanical thrombectomy alone . Our objective is to compare the efficacy and safety of Bridging therapy and mechanical thrombectomy for anterior circulation large vessel occlusion .

A systematic search of biomedical literature databases was performed from inception to October 29, 2021, to identify prospective and retrospective studies comparing the rates for functional independence and mortality at 90 days, symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, and successful recanalization rates for mechanical thrombectomy and Bridging therapy . Effect size was represented by odds ratio, and analysis was done with random-effects meta-analysis . Heterogeneity was assessed by I2 and Cochrane Q statistics .

Overall, 41 studies with 14,885 patients were included . All studies used alteplase as the thrombolytic agent . The Bridging therapy group had 29 percent higher odds for functional independence, 25 percent higher odds of successful reperfusion, and 31 percent decrease in odds for mortality compared with mechanical thrombectomy . symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage prevalence was similar between groups . Six of the studies were randomized controlled trials  with intention-to-treat analysis done in patients presenting directly to mechanical thrombectomy-capable centers . When analysis was restricted to these 6 randomized controlled trials, no differences were observed in functional independence, symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, or mortality between groups . However, successful reperfusion favored the Bridging therapy group .

The odds for functional independence, successful reperfusion, and mortality for the entire dataset favored the use of Bridging therapy over mechanical thrombectomy . When analysis was restricted to randomized controlled trials, both treatments had similar functional and safety outcomes, but recanalization rates favored the Bridging therapy group . Because these findings may differ in patients who present to non–mechanical thrombectomy-capable centers or with the use of other thrombolytic agents, further randomized controlled trials are needed .
