Blood pressure variability is an emerging risk factor for cognitive decline and dementia, but mechanisms remain unclear . The current study examined whether visit-to-visit blood pressure variability is related to CSF Alzheimer disease biomarker levels over time and whether associations differed by APOE Epsilon4 carrier status .

In this retrospective analysis of a prospective cohort study, cognitively unimpaired or mildly impaired older adults from the Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative underwent 3 to 4 blood pressure measurements over a 12-month period and above 1 lumbar puncture for evaluation of CSF phosphorylated tau, total tau, and Beta-amyloid levels at follow-up . APOE Epsilon4 carriers were defined as having at least 1 Epsilon4 allele . Visit-to-visit blood pressure variability was determined over 12 months as variability independent of mean . Only CSF samples collected after the final blood pressure measurement were analyzed . Bayesian linear growth modeling investigated the role of blood pressure variability, APOE Epsilon4, and the passage of time on CSF biomarker levels after controlling for several variables, including average blood pressure and baseline hypertension .

Elevated blood pressure variability was associated with increased CSF phosphorylated tau, increased total tau, and decreased Beta-amyloid levels at follow-up . APOE Epsilon4 carriers with elevated blood pressure variability had the fastest increase in phosphorylated tau levels . Blood pressure variability was not significantly related to total tau or Beta-amyloid levels over time according to APOE Epsilon4 carrier status .

Older adults with elevated blood pressure variability exhibit increased CSF phosphorylated tau, increased total tau, and decreased Beta-amyloid over time, suggesting that blood pressure variability may correlate with alterations in Alzheimer disease biomarkers . Findings warrant further study of the relationship between blood pressure variability and the development of Alzheimer disease . APOE Epsilon4 carrier status moderated relationships between blood pressure variability and CSF phosphorylated tau but not total tau or Beta-amyloid, consistent with other studies relating hemodynamic factors to tau changes .

