instances that refer to the same real-world entity.
One of the main challenges in the Data Web is the identification of instances.
Choosing the right framework for this purpose remains tedious, as current instance fail to provide end users and developers with the necessary insights.
the necessary insights pertaining to how current frameworks behave when dealing with real data.
current instance matching benchmarks.
In this paper, we present a domain-independent instance.
In this paper, we present lance.
a domain-independent instance matching benchmark generator.
benchmark generator which focuses on benchmarking instance matching systems for Linked Data.
the standard test cases related to structure transformations.
lance is the first Linked Data benchmark generator to support complex semantics-aware test cases.
the standard test cases related to value transformations.
complex semantics-aware test cases that take into account expressive OWL constructs.
lance is the first Linked Data benchmark generator to support the standard test cases.
lance supports the definition of matching tasks with varying degrees of difficulty.
lance produces a weighted gold standard.
a weighted gold standard which allows a more fine-grained analysis of the performance of instance matching tools.
a target dataset implementing test cases of varying levels of difficulty.
the Data Web accompanying schema as input to produce a target dataset.
the Data Web can accept any linked dataset.
the Data Web can accept the Data Web.
We provide a comparative analysis with lance benchmarks to identify the capabilities of state of the art instance matching systems to demonstrate the scalability of lance’s test case generator.
We provide a comparative analysis with lance benchmarks to assess the capabilities of state of the art instance matching systems to demonstrate the scalability of lance’s test case generator.
We provide a comparative analysis with lance benchmarks to assess the capabilities of state of the art instance matching an evaluation to demonstrate the scalability of lance’s test case generator.
We provide a comparative analysis with lance benchmarks to identify the capabilities of state of the art instance matching an evaluation to demonstrate the scalability of lance’s test case generator.