Children and adolescents with chronic migraine who have continuous headache may have high levels of headache-related disability but have largely been excluded from clinical trials . Understanding patient-valued treatment outcomes may facilitate future study design . The aim of this work was to identify patient-valued outcome measures for headache preventive treatments among adolescents with continuous headache due to chronic migraine and their parents .

Adolescents with an International Classification of Headache Disorders, 3rd edition diagnosis of chronic migraine, who had continuous headache and who were being cared for at a tertiary pediatric headache clinic, and their parents were surveyed to query the value of treatment outcomes in the domains of headache frequency, intensity, functional impact, and associated symptoms . Individual outcomes and categories of outcomes were ranked in order of preference using weighted average rank . Results were rounded to the degree of precision with which they were measured .

Overall, the most valued individual outcome measure among both adolescents and parents was a decrease in frequency of more severe headaches . however, outcomes reflecting headache intensity were most valued by adolescents, while outcomes reflecting functional impact were most valued by parents . Among associated symptoms, improvement in brain fog was most highly valued by both adolescents and parents .

The results of this study provide important information about which preventive treatment outcomes are valued by adolescents with continuous headache due to chronic migraine and their parents . Results suggest that adolescents value a decrease in frequency of severe headaches over a decrease in frequency of headache days overall . Generalizability may be limited because the surveyed population was being cared for at a tertiary pediatric headache clinic and generally had headache disorders that were refractory to treatment . These results may help guide future trial design in this population with continuous headache due to chronic migraine .

