Prior regional or single-center studies have noted that 4 percent to 7 percent of eligible patients with acute ischemic stroke decline IV tissue plasminogen activator . We sought to determine the prevalence of tissue plasminogen activator declination in a nationwide registry of patients with acute ischemic stroke  and to investigate differences in declination by race/ethnicity .

We used the Get With The Guidelines–Stroke registry to identify patients with acute ischemic stroke eligible for tissue plasminogen activator and admitted to participating hospitals between January 1, 2016, and March 28, 2019 . We compared patient demographics and admitting hospital characteristics between tissue plasminogen activator-eligible patients who received and those who declined tissue plasminogen activator . Using multivariable logistic regression, we determined patient and hospital factors associated with tissue plasminogen activator declination .

Among 177,115 tissue plasminogen activator-eligible patients with acute ischemic stroke  at 1,976 sites, 6,545 patients had tissue plasminogen activator declination as the sole documented reason for not receiving tissue plasminogen activator . Patients declining treatment were slightly older, were more likely to be female, arrived more often at off-hours and earlier after symptom onset, and were more likely to present to Primary Stroke Centers . Compared with non-Hispanic White, non-Hispanic Black race and ethnicity was independently associated with increased, Asian race and ethnicity with decreased, and Hispanic ethnicity with similar odds of tissue plasminogen activator declination in multivariable analysis .

Although the overall prevalence of tissue plasminogen activator declination is low, eligible non-Hispanic Black patients are more likely and Asian patients less likely to decline tissue plasminogen activator than non-Hispanic White patients . Reducing rates of tissue plasminogen activator declinations among non-Hispanic Black patients may be an opportunity to address disparities in stroke care .
