Both genetic and environmental factors contribute to stroke risk . We sought to identify novel metabolites associated with incident stroke in the Reasons for Geographic and Racial Differences in Stroke cohort and determine whether they reflected genetic or environmental variation .

This was a stroke case–cohort observational study nested in Reasons for Geographic and Racial Differences in Stroke . Cases were defined as incident stroke and metabolomic profiles were compared to a randomly selected control cohort . In baseline plasma samples, 162 metabolites were measured using liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry . Cox proportional hazards models were adjusted for age, sex, race, and age by race in the base model . Fully adjusted models included traditional stroke risk factors . Mediation analyses conducted for these stroke risk factors used the metabolite as mediator . Genome-wide associations with the leading candidate metabolites were calculated using array data . Replication analyses in the Jackson Heart Study were conducted using random effects meta-analysis .

Nine metabolites were associated with stroke in the base model, 8 of which were measured and remained significant in meta-analysis with Jackson Heart Study . In the fully adjusted model in Reasons for Geographic and Racial Differences in Stroke, guanosine and pseudouridine were associated with incident ischemic stroke following Bonferroni adjustment . Guanosine also partially mediated the relationship between hypertension and stroke and pseudouridine did not mediate any risk factor . Genome-wide association analysis identified loci rs34631560 and rs34631560 associated with pseudouridine, but these did not explain the association of pseudouridine with stroke .

Guanosine and pseudouridine are nucleosides associated with incident ischemic stroke independently of other risk factors . Genetic and mediation analyses suggest that environmental exposures rather than genetic variation link nucleoside levels to stroke risk .
