Semantic Web languages are being used to represent, exchange semantic data in many contexts beyond the Web– in mobile computing networking environments.
Semantic Web languages are being used to represent, exchange semantic data in many contexts beyond the Web– in databases networking environments.
Semantic Web languages are being used to represent, encode semantic data in many contexts beyond the Web– in ad hoc networking environments.
Semantic Web languages are being used to represent, encode semantic data in many contexts beyond the Web– in databases networking environments.
Semantic Web languages are being used to represent, encode semantic data in many contexts beyond the Web– in multiagent systems networking environments.
Semantic Web languages are being used to represent, exchange semantic data in many contexts beyond the Web– in multiagent systems networking environments.
Semantic Web languages are being used to represent, exchange semantic data in many contexts beyond the Web– in ad hoc networking environments.
Semantic Web languages are being used to represent, encode semantic data in many contexts beyond the Web– in mobile computing networking environments.
agents who consume data on the World Wide Web.
The core paradigm, however, remains what we call the Web aspect of the Semantic Web– the Semantic Web use by distributed agents.
The core paradigm, however, remains what we call the Web aspect of the Semantic Web– the Semantic Web use by independent.
agents who publish data on the World Wide Web.
To better understand this central use case, we have harvested a collection of the World Wide Web documents from an estimated ten million available on the World Wide Web.
To better understand this central use case, we have analyzed a collection of the World Wide Web documents from an estimated ten million available on the World Wide Web.
Using a corpus of more than 1.7 million documents we describe a number of usage patterns.
Using a corpus of more than 1.7 million documents we describe a number of global metrics, properties.
more than 1.7 million documents comprising over 300 million RDF triples.
Most of the metrics, such as the use frequency of the World Wide Web terms were found to follow a power law distribution.
Most of the metrics, such as the size of the World Wide Web documents were found to follow a power law distribution.