Ontology-Based Data Access concerns answering queries over the target ontology.
Given a mapping from the source database to the target ontology Ontology-Based Data Access concerns.
Given a source relational database Ontology-Based Data Access concerns.
Given a target OWL ontology Ontology-Based Data Access concerns.
the target ontology using these three components.
This paper presents the development of an Ontology-Based Data Access system that is, a hybridization of materialization.
This paper presents the development of an Ontology-Based Data Access system that is, a hybridization of query rewriting.
an Ontology-Based Data Access system comprising bidirectional evaluation.
This paper presents the development of UltrawrapOBDA that is, a hybridization of query rewriting.
This paper presents the development of UltrawrapOBDA that is, a hybridization of materialization.
the views specified by the mappings.
We observe that by compiling the ontological entailments as mappings is able to reduce the execution time of a SPARQL query by rewriting the query in terms of the views.
We observe that by materializing a subset of the views, the underlying SQL optimizer is able to reduce the execution time of a SPARQL query by rewriting the query in terms of the views.
We observe that by implementing the mappings as SQL views is able to reduce the execution time of a SPARQL query by rewriting the query in terms of the views.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first Ontology-Based Data Access system.
the first Ontology-Based Data Access system supporting ontologies with transitivity by using SQL recursion.
We contributions include: a cost model to determine which views to materialize to attain the fastest execution time.
a state-of-the-art Ontology-Based Data Access system which validates the cost model.
We contributions include: an empirical evaluation.
a state-of-the-art Ontology-Based Data Access system which demonstrates favorable execution times.
We contributions include: an efficient algorithm to compile ontological entailments as mappings.
We contributions include: a proof that every SPARQL query can be rewritten into a SQL query in the context of mappings.
an empirical evaluation comparing with a state-of-the-art Ontology-Based Data Access system.