The utility of the Glasgow Coma Scale in intubated patients is limited due to reliance on language function evaluation . The Full Outline of Unresponsiveness Score was designed to circumvent this shortcoming, instead adding evaluations of brainstem reflexes and specific respiratory patterns . We aimed to determine whether the verbal component of the Glasgow Coma Scale  among nonintubated patients with encephalopathy significantly contributes to mortality prediction and to assess Glasgow Coma Scale vs Full Outline of Unresponsiveness Score performance .

All prospectively consented patients over 18 years of age admitted to the Internal Medicine service at Zambia's University Teaching Hospital from October 3, 2017, to May 21, 2018, with a Glasgow Coma Scale score below 10 have undergone simultaneous Glasgow Coma Scale and Full Outline of Unresponsiveness Score assessments . The patients were not eligible for mechanical ventilatory support per local standards . Patients demographics and clinical characteristics were presented as either percentage frequencies or numerical summaries of spread . The predictive power of the Glasgow Coma Scale without the Verbal component vs total Glasgow Coma Scale vs Full Outline of Unresponsiveness Score on mortality was estimated with the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve .

Two hundred thirty-five patients were enrolled . All patients were Black . Presumed etiology was CNS infection, stroke, systemic infection, and metabolic encephalopathy.  In-hospital mortality was 83 percent . area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for Glasgow Coma Scale Eye and Motor score vs total Glasgow Coma Scale score vs total Full Outline of Unresponsiveness Score did not differ . Odds ratio mortality for Glasgow Coma Scale score  over 6 vs smaller or equal to 6 was 0.32. For Full Outline of Unresponsiveness Score over 10 vs smaller or equal to 10, it was 0.41 .

Absence of a verbal component of Glasgow Coma Scale had no significant impact on the performance of the total Glasgow Coma Scale, and either Glasgow Coma Scale or Full Outline of Unresponsiveness Score is an acceptable scoring tool for mortality prediction in the resource-limited setting . These findings need further validation in the countries with readily available mechanical ventilatory support .

This study provides Class I evidence that the verbal component of the Glasgow Coma Scale does not significantly contribute to a total Glasgow Coma Scale score in mortality prediction among patients with encephalopathy who are not intubated .

