Little is known about the effect of education or other indicators of cognitive reserve on the rate of reversion from mild cognitive impairment  to normal cognition or the relative rate of reversion from mild cognitive impairment to normal cognition vs progression from mild cognitive impairment to dementia . Our objectives were to estimate transition rates from mild cognitive impairment to normal cognition and dementia and determine the effect of age, APOE, and indicators of cognitive reserve on the relative rate of reversion vs progression using multistate Markov modeling .

We estimated instantaneous transition rates between normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment, and dementia after accounting for transition to death across up to 12 assessments in the Nun Study, a cohort study of religious sisters aged over 75 years . We estimated relative rates of reversion vs progression for age, APOE, and potential cognitive reserve indicators, such as education, academic performanormal cognitione, and written language skills .

Of the 619 participants, 472 were assessed with mild cognitive impairment during the study period . In models adjusted for age group and APOE, higher levels of education more than doubled the relative rate ratio of reversion vs progression . Novel cognitive reserve indicators were significantly associated with a higher adjusted relative rate of reversion vs progression .

Knowledge of frequent reversion from mild cognitive impairment to normal cognition may alleviate conormal cognitionerns of inevitable cognitive decline in those with mild cognitive impairment . Identification of characteristics predicting the rate of reversion from mild cognitive impairment to normal cognition vs progression from mild cognitive impairment to dementia may guide population-level interventions targeting these characteristics to prevent or postpone mild cognitive impairment and dementia . Research on cognitive trajectories would benefit from inormal cognitionorporating predictors of reverse transitions and competing events, such as death, into statistical modeling . These results may inform the design and interpretation of mild cognitive impairment clinical trials, given that a substantial proportion of participants may experienormal cognitione improvement without intervention .
