A marketplace is the place.
buyers participating in a business process.
the place in which the demand and supply of buyers may meet.
the place in which the demand and supply of vendors may meet.
vendors participating in a business process.
virtual communities in which buyers may make the best choice.
virtual communities in which buyers may meet proposals of several suppliers.
Therefore, electronic marketplaces are virtual communities.
In the electronic commerce world, the comparison between different products is blocked due to the lack of standards ( on the contrary, the proliferation of standards ) classifying different products.
In the electronic commerce world, the comparison between different products is blocked due to the lack of standards ( on the contrary, the proliferation of standards ) describing different products.
Therefore, the need for B2B marketplaces is to reclassify products according to different standardization models.
Therefore, the need for B2C marketplaces is to reclassify goods according to different standardization models.
Therefore, the need for B2B marketplaces is to reclassify goods according to different standardization models.
Therefore, the need for B2C marketplaces is to reclassify products according to different standardization models.
This paper aims to face this problem by suggesting the use of a semi-automatic methodology to define the mapping among different e-commerce product classification standards.
a semi-automatic methodology supported by a tool.
a semi-automatic methodology supported by a tool -RRB-.
a semi-automatic methodology supported by a tool -RRB-.
a semi-automatic methodology was developed for the MOMIS system within the Intelligent Integration of Information research area.
the methodology that makes our extension applyable in general to product classification standard, by selecting a fragment of ECCMAUNSPSC standard.
the methodology that makes our extension applyable in general to product classification standard, by selecting a fragment of ecl@ss standard.
We describe We extension to the methodology.