To evaluate the immune-specific response after full severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 vaccination of patients with multiple sclerosis treated with different disease-modifying drugs by the detection of both serologic and T-cell responses .

Healthcare workers and patients with multiple sclerosis, having completed the 2-dose schedule of an mRNA-based vaccine against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 in the past 2–4 weeks, were enrolled from 2 parallel prospective studies conducted in Rome, Italy, at the National Institute for Infectious diseases Spallanzani–IRCSS and San Camillo Forlanini Hospital . Serologic response was evaluated by quantifying the region-binding domain and neutralizing antibodies . Cell-mediated response was analyzed by a whole-blood test quantifying interferon–gamma response to spike peptides . Cells responding to spike stimulation were identified by fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis .

We prospectively enrolled 186 vaccinated individuals. Twenty-eight patients with multiple sclerosis were treated with interferon-beta, 35 with fingolimod, 20 with cladribine, and 25 with ocrelizumab . A lower anti-region-binding domain antibody response rate was found in patients treated with ocrelizumab and fingolimod compared to Healthcare workers and patients treated with cladribine or interferon-beta. Anti-region-binding domain antibody median titer was lower in patients treated with ocrelizumab, and cladribine compared to Healthcare workers and patients treated with interferon-beta . Serum neutralizing activity was present in all the Healthcare workers tested and in only a minority of the fingolimod-treated patients . T-cell–specific response was detected in the majority of patients with multiple sclerosis, albeit with significantly lower interferon-gamma levels compared to Healthcare workers . The lowest frequency of T-cell response was found in patients treated with fingolimod . T-cell–specific response correlated with lymphocyte count and anti-region-binding domain antibody titer . interferon-gamma T-cell response was mediated by both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells .

mRNA vaccines induce both humoral and cell-mediated specific immune responses against spike peptides in all Healthcare workers and in the majority of patients with multiple sclerosis . These results carry relevant implications for managing vaccinations, suggesting promoting vaccination in all treated patients with multiple sclerosis .

This study provides Class III data that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 mRNA vaccination induces both humoral and cell-mediated specific immune responses against viral spike proteins in a majority of patients with multiple sclerosis .

