Knowledge Graphs are becoming essential to store the knowledge of the world.
Knowledge Graphs are becoming essential to represent.
Knowledge Graphs are becoming essential to organize.
Knowledge Graphs still rely heavily on humanly-curated structured data.
Knowledge Graphs still rely heavily on humanly-curated structured data.
Information Extraction tasks, like disambiguating relations from unstructured text, are key to automate Knowledge Graphs population.
Information Extraction tasks, like disambiguating entities from unstructured text, are key to automate Knowledge Graphs population.
However, Natural Language Processing methods alone can not guarantee the validity of the facts.
the facts extracted.
However, Natural Language Processing methods alone may introduce erroneous information into the Knowledge Graphs.
an end-to-end system that combines Validation techniques with Natural Language Processing methods, to provide Knowledge Graphs population of novel facts from clustered news events.
an end-to-end system that combines Semantic Knowledge with Natural Language Processing methods, to provide Knowledge Graphs population of novel facts from clustered news events.
This work presents an end-to-end system.
These two contributions are two-fold: First, we present a novel method for including entity-type knowledge into a Relation Extraction model, improving F1-Score over the baseline with TACRED datasets.
These two contributions are two-fold: First, we present a novel method for including entity-type knowledge into a Relation Extraction model, improving F1-Score over the baseline with TypeRE datasets.
Second, we increase the precision by adding data validation on top of the Relation Extraction method.
These two contributions are combined in an industrial pipeline for automatic Knowledge Graphs population over aggregated news.
population over aggregated news demonstrating increased data validity when performing online learning from unstructured web data.
Finally, the AggregatedNewsRE dataset build to benchmark These two contributions are also published to stimulate future research in this field.
Finally, the TypeRE dataset build to benchmark These two contributions are also published to stimulate future research in this field.