the ways in which services can be composed.
a template, workflow or scaffolding that dictates the ways.
To direct automated Web service composition, it is compelling to provide a template, workflow or scaffolding.
work using Hierarchical Task Networks for Web service composition.
Web service composition that builds on work.
work using AI planning for Web service composition.
In this paper we present an approach to Web service composition.
A significant advantage of we approach is that our approach provides much of the how-to knowledge of a choreography while enabling optimization of integrated Web service selection.
composition based upon the needs of the specific problem.
A significant advantage of we approach is that our approach provides much of the how-to knowledge of a choreography while enabling customization of composition.
A significant advantage of we approach is that our approach provides much of the how-to knowledge of a choreography while enabling customization of integrated Web service selection.
composition based upon the needs of the preferences of the customer.
composition based upon the needs of the available services.
A significant advantage of we approach is that our approach provides much of the how-to knowledge of a choreography while enabling optimization of composition.
Many customers must also be concerned with enforcement of regulations, perhaps in the form of corporate policies andor government regulations.
Regulations are traditionally enforced at design time by verifying that a workflow or composition adheres to regulations.
we approach supports optimization enforcement all at composition construction time.
we approach supports customization enforcement all at composition construction time.
we approach supports regulation enforcement all at composition construction time.
To maximize efficiency, we bound search algorithm.
search algorithm that enable the generation of high quality compositions with the performance of state-of-the-art planning systems.
To maximize efficiency, we have developed novel search heuristics together with a branch.