widespread diffusion of portable devices offer novel opportunities for users to form ad-hoc coalitions.
widespread diffusion of portable devices offer novel opportunities for users to share resources anytime.
Wireless connectivity of portable devices offer novel opportunities for users to form ad-hoc coalitions.
Wireless connectivity of portable devices offer novel opportunities for users to share resources anytime.
widespread diffusion of portable devices offer novel opportunities for users to share resources anywhere.
Wireless connectivity of portable devices offer novel opportunities for users to share resources anywhere.
Resource access control is crucial to leverage these ad-hoc collaborations.
collaborating entities can not be predetermined.
In pervasive scenarios.
however.
resource availability frequently varies, even unpredictably, due to userdevice mobility, thus complicating resource access control.
Access control policies can not be specified a priori to face any operative run time condition.
Access control policies require continuous adjustments to adapt to the current situation.
Access control policies can not be defined based on entity’s identitiesroles, as in traditional access control solutions,.
To address these issues, this paper advocates semantic technologies for contextpolicy specification to allow high-level description and reasoning about context.
novel access control policy models that follow two main design guidelines.
To address these issues, this paper advocates semantic technologies for contextpolicy specification to allow high-level description and reasoning about policies.
To address these issues, this paper advocates the adoption of novel access control policy models.
To address these issues, this paper advocates context-awareness to enable dynamic adaptation of policies depending on context changes.
To address these issues, this paper advocates context-awareness to control resource access on the basis of context visibility.
a semantic context-aware policy model that adopts ontologies to express context-aware access control policies.
a semantic context-aware policy model that adopts rules to express context-aware access control policies.
a semantic context-aware policy model that adopts ontologies to express context.
this paper also describes the design of a semantic context-aware policy model.
a semantic context-aware policy model that supports policy adaptation.
a semantic context-aware policy model that adopts rules to express context.