The Web of Data is increasingly becoming an important infrastructure for such diverse sectors as government.
The Web of Data is increasingly becoming an important infrastructure for such diverse sectors as e-commerce.
The Web of Data is increasingly becoming an important infrastructure for such diverse sectors as science.
The Web of Data is increasingly becoming an important infrastructure for such diverse sectors as entertainment.
As a result, the robustness of The Web of Data is now crucial.
Prior studies show that The Web of Data is strongly dependent on a small number of central hubs, making The Web of Data highly vulnerable to single points of failure.
In this paper, we present concepts to repair the brittleness of The Web of Data.
In this paper, we present algorithms to repair the brittleness of The Web of Data.
In this paper, we present algorithms to analyse the brittleness of The Web of Data.
In this paper, we present concepts to analyse the brittleness of The Web of Data.
We apply these on a substantial subset of it, the 2010 Billion Triple Challenge dataset.
We first distinguish the physical structure of the Web of Data from The Web of Data semantic structure.
For both of these structures, we then calculate both of these structures robustness.
both of these structures robustness taking betweenness centrality as a robustness-measure.
To the best of We knowledge, this is the first time that such robustness-indicators have been calculated for The Web of Data.
Finally, we determine which links should be added to The Web of Data in order to improve The Web of Data robustness most effectively.
We are able to determine such links by interpreting the question as a very large optimisation problem.
We are able to determine such links by deploying an evolutionary algorithm to solve a very large optimisation problem.
We believe that with this work, We offer an effective method to improve the most important structure that the The Web of Data community has constructed to date.
We believe that with this work, We offer an effective method to analyse the most important structure that the The Web of Data community has constructed to date.