Physical activity has been associated with a decreased risk for dementia, but the mechanisms underlying this association remain to be determined . Our objective was to assess whether cardiovascular risk factors mediate the association between physical activity and brain integrity markers in older adults .

At baseline, participants from the Age-Well study completed a physical activity questionnaire and underwent cardiovascular risk factors collection and multimodal neuroimaging . Multiple regressions were conducted to assess the association among physical activity, cardiovascular risk factors, and neuroimaging . Mediation analyses were performed to test whether cardiovascular risk factors mediated the associations between physical activity and neuroimaging .

Higher physical activity was associated with lower insulin level and body mass index but not with the other cardiovascular risk factors . Lower insulin level and body mass index were related to higher gray matter volume but not to cerebral glucose metabolism . When controlling for insulin level and body mass index, the association between physical activity and cerebral glucose metabolism remained unchanged, while the association with gray matter volume was lost . When insulin level and body mass index were entered in the same model, only body mass index remained a significant predictor of gray matter volume . Mediation analyses confirmed that insulin level and body mass index mediated the association between physical activity and gray matter volume . Analyses were replicated within regions sensitive to Alzheimer disease and results remained overall similar .

The association between physical activity and gray matter volume is mediated by changes in insulin level and body mass index . In contrast, the association with cerebral glucose metabolism seems to be independent from cardiovascular risk factors . Older adults engaging in physical activity experience cardiovascular benefits through the maintenance of a lower body mass index and insulin level, resulting in greater structural brain integrity . This study has implications for understanding how physical activity affects brain health and may help in developing strategies to prevent or delay age-related decline .
