Increasingly huge RDF data sets are being published on the Web.
Currently, the Web have a plain indivisible structure.
Currently, the Web contain high levels of redundancy.
Currently, the Web use different syntaxes of RDF.
All this leads to inefficient management.
All this leads to fuzzy publications.
All this leads to lack of scalability.
All this leads to complex processing.
a novel RDF representation which takes advantage of the structural properties of RDF graphs for splitting efficiently, three components of RDF data: Header structure.
a novel RDF representation which takes advantage of the structural properties of RDF graphs representing efficiently, three components of RDF data: Dictionary structure.
All this presents a novel RDF representation.
a novel RDF representation which takes advantage of the structural properties of RDF graphs representing efficiently, three components of RDF data: Triples structure.
a novel RDF representation which takes advantage of the structural properties of RDF graphs representing efficiently, three components of RDF data: Header structure.
a novel RDF representation which takes advantage of the structural properties of RDF graphs for splitting efficiently, three components of RDF data: Dictionary structure.
a novel RDF representation which takes advantage of the structural properties of RDF graphs for splitting efficiently, three components of RDF data: Triples structure.
On-demand management operations can be implemented on top of a novel RDF representation representation.
more than fifteen times the current naive representation improving processing while keeping a consistent publication scheme.
Experiments show that data sets can be compacted in a novel RDF representation by more than fifteen times the current naive representation.
more than fifteen times the current naive representation improving parsing while keeping a consistent publication scheme.
For exchanging, specific compression techniques over a novel RDF representation improve current compression solutions.