Mild cognitive impairment is an at-risk state for dementia . however, not all individuals with Mild cognitive impairment transition to dementia, and some revert to normal cognition . Here, we investigate whether mild behavioral impairment, the late-life onset of persistent neuropsychiatric symptoms, improves the prognostic specificity of Mild cognitive impairment .

Participants with Mild cognitive impairment from the National Alzheimer Coordinating Center Uniform Data Set were included . neuropsychiatric symptoms were operationalized with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory Questionnaire to identify participants without neuropsychiatric symptoms and those with mild behavioral impairment . Individuals with late-onset neuropsychiatric symptoms not meeting the mild behavioral impairment persistence criterion were retained for secondary analyses . Progression to dementia, stable Mild cognitive impairment, and reversion to normal cognition after 3 years of follow-up were defined per National Institute on Aging Alzheimer Association and Petersen criteria .

Compared to participants without neuropsychiatric symptoms, participants with mild behavioral impairment were significantly more likely to progress to dementia, with an annual progression rate of 14.7 percent . Compared to participants without neuropsychiatric symptoms, participants with mild behavioral impairment were less likely to revert to normal cognition .

Late-onset neuropsychiatric symptoms improve the specificity of Mild cognitive impairment as an at-risk state for progression to dementia . However, only persistent late-onset neuropsychiatric symptoms are associated with a lower likelihood of reversion to normal cognition, with transient neuropsychiatric symptoms not differing from the neuropsychiatric symptoms group . Clinical prognostication can be improved by incorporating late-onset neuropsychiatric symptoms, especially those that persist, into risk assessments . Clinical trials may benefit from enrichment with these higher-risk participants with Mild cognitive impairment .
