123I-meta-iodobenzyl-guanidine myocardial scintigraphy is used as a diagnostic imaging test to differentiate Lewy body diseases, including Parkinson disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, from other similar diseases . However, this imaging test lacks validation of its diagnostic accuracy against the gold standard . Our aim was to validate the diagnostic accuracy of 123I-meta-iodobenzyl-guanidine myocardial scintigraphy for Lewy body disease against autopsy, the gold standard .

This retrospective, cross-sectional study included consecutive autopsy patients from the Brain Bank for Aging Research who had undergone 123I-meta-iodobenzyl-guanidine myocardial scintigraphy . We compared the 123I-meta-iodobenzyl-guanidine myocardial scintigraphy findings with autopsy findings . Furthermore, the proportion of residual tyrosine hydroxylase–immunoreactive sympathetic fibers in the anterior wall of the left ventricle was investigated to assess the condition of the cardiac sympathetic nerves assumed to cause reduced 123I-meta-iodobenzyl-guanidine uptake in Lewy body diseases .

We analyzed the data of 56 patients . Compared with the neuropathologic diagnosis, the early heart-to-mediastinum ratio had a sensitivity and specificity of 70 percent and 96.2 percent, respectively . The delayed heart-to-mediastinum ratio had a sensitivity and specificity of 80 percent and 92.3 percent, respectively . The washout rate had a sensitivity and specificity of 80 percent and 84.6 percent, respectively . The proportion of residual tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cardiac sympathetic fibers strongly correlated with the amount of cardiac 123I-meta-iodobenzyl-guanidine uptake when assessed with early and delayed heart-to-mediastinum ratio values .

This clinicopathologic validation study revealed that 123I-meta-iodobenzyl-guanidine myocardial scintigraphy could robustly differentiate Lewy body diseases from similar diseases . Abnormal 123I-meta-iodobenzyl-guanidine myocardial scintigraphy findings strongly support the presence of Lewy body disease and cardiac sympathetic denervation . However, Lewy body disease pathology should not necessarily be excluded by normal myocardial scintigraphy results, especially when other biomarkers suggest the presence of comorbid Alzheimer disease pathology .
