Knowledge Bases contain complementary information about real-world objects.
Knowledge Bases contain rich information about real-world objects.
Knowledge Bases contain relations among Knowledge Bases.
Knowledge Bases contain relations among textual documents.
textual documents contain relations among textual documents.
textual documents contain relations among Knowledge Bases.
textual documents contain rich information about real-world objects.
textual documents contain complementary information about real-world objects.
While text documents describe entities in freeform, Knowledge Bases organizes such information in a structured way.
This makes these two information representation forms hard to integrate, limiting the possibility to use these two information representation forms jointly to improve analytical tasks.
This makes these two information representation forms hard to integrate, limiting the possibility to use these two information representation forms jointly to improve predictive tasks.
This makes these two information representation forms hard to compare, limiting the possibility to use these two information representation forms jointly to improve predictive tasks.
This makes these two information representation forms hard to compare, limiting the possibility to use these two information representation forms jointly to improve analytical tasks.
In this article, we study this problem, and we propose based on regularized multi-task learning of Knowledge Base.
In this article, we study this problem, and we propose based on regularized multi-task learning of document embeddings.
based on regularized multi-task learning of Knowledge Base can potentially incorporate document embedding learning method.
based on regularized multi-task learning of Knowledge Base can potentially incorporate any Knowledge Base.
based on regularized multi-task learning of document embeddings can potentially incorporate document embedding learning method.
based on regularized multi-task learning of document embeddings can potentially incorporate any Knowledge Base.
we experiments on multiple datasets and methods show that based on regularized multi-task learning of document embeddings effectively aligns entities embeddings, while maintaining the characteristics of the embedding models.
we experiments on multiple datasets and methods show that based on regularized multi-task learning of document embeddings effectively aligns document embeddings, while maintaining the characteristics of the embedding models.
we experiments on multiple datasets and methods show that based on regularized multi-task learning of Knowledge Base effectively aligns entities embeddings, while maintaining the characteristics of the embedding models.
we experiments on multiple datasets and methods show that based on regularized multi-task learning of Knowledge Base effectively aligns document embeddings, while maintaining the characteristics of the embedding models.