Early consciousness disorder after acute ischemic stroke is understudied . Early consciousness disorder may influence outcomes and the decision to withhold or withdraw life-sustaining treatment .

We studied patients with acute ischemic stroke from 2010 to 2019 across 122 hospitals participating in the Florida Stroke Registry . We studied the effect of Early consciousness disorder on in-hospital mortality, withholding or withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment, ambulation status on discharge, hospital length of stay, and discharge disposition .

Of 238,989 patients with acute ischemic stroke, 32,861 had Early consciousness disorder at stroke presentation . Overall, average age was 72 years, 49 percent were women, 63 percent were White, 18 percent were Black, and 14 percent were Hispanic . Compared to patients without Early consciousness disorder, patients with Early consciousness disorder were older, were more often female, had more comorbidities, had greater stroke severity as assessed by the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, had higher withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment rates, and had greater in-hospital mortality . Using adjusted models accounting for basic characteristics, patients with Early consciousness disorder had greater in-hospital mortality, had longer hospitalization, were less likely to be discharged home or to rehabilitation, and were less likely to ambulate independently . withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment significantly mediated the effect of Early consciousness disorder on mortality . In temporal trend analysis, we found a significant decrease in early withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment and an increase in late withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment .

In this large prospective multicenter stroke registry, patients with acute ischemic stroke presenting with Early consciousness disorder had greater mortality and worse discharge outcomes. Mortality was largely influenced by the withdrawal of life-sustaining treatment decision .
