In this paper, we present Semano— a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies.
JAPE transducers that has been introduced within the General Architecture for Text Engineering to enable modular development of annotation rule bases.
Semano generalizes the mechanism of JAPE transducers.
a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies generalizes the mechanism of JAPE transducers.
The core of the Semano rule base model are rule templates.
rule templates called The core of the Semano rule base model instantiations.
rule templates called japelates.
the document characteristics used within japelates.
While Semano is generic a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies provides several generic japelates.
While a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies does not make assumptions about the document characteristics Semano provides several generic japelates.
While Semano does not make assumptions about the document characteristics Semano provides several generic japelates.
While a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies is generic Semano provides several generic japelates.
While Semano is generic Semano provides several generic japelates.
While a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies is generic a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies provides several generic japelates.
While Semano does not make assumptions about the document characteristics a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies provides several generic japelates.
While a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies does not make assumptions about the document characteristics a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies provides several generic japelates.
several generic japelates that can serve as a starting point.
a tool that can generate an initial rule base from an ontology.
Also, a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies provides a tool.
Also, Semano provides a tool.
an initial rule base can be easily extended to meet the requirements of the application in question.
In addition to an initial rule base Java API, a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies includes two GUI components— an annotation viewer.
In addition to an initial rule base Java API, Semano includes two GUI components— an annotation viewer.
In addition to an initial rule base Java API, a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies includes two GUI components— a rule base editor.
In addition to an initial rule base Java API, Semano includes two GUI components— a rule base editor.
In combination with the rule generator two GUI components-- an annotation viewer can be used by domain experts.
In combination with the default japelates two GUI components-- an annotation viewer can be used by domain experts.
In combination with the rule generator two GUI components-- a rule base editor can be used by domain experts.
In combination with the default japelates two GUI components-- a rule base editor can be used by domain experts.
domain experts that are not familiar with the technical details of the framework to set up a domain-specific annotator.
In this paper, we introduce the rule base model of Semano-- a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies, provide examples of adapting an initial rule base to meet particular application requirements and report we experience with applying a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies within the domain of nano technology.
In this paper, we introduce the rule base model of Semano-- a generic framework for annotating natural language texts with entities of OWL 2 DL ontologies, provide examples of adapting an initial rule base to meet particular application requirements and report we experience with applying Semano .