Neurofilament light appears to be a promising fluid biomarker in repeat-expansion spinocerebellar ataxias, with piloting studies in mixed spinocerebelar ataxia cohorts suggesting that neurofilament light might be increased at the ataxic stage of spinocerebelar ataxia type 1 . We here hypothesized that neurofilament light is increased not only at the ataxic stage of spinocerebelar ataxia1, but also at its preataxic stage .

Methods We assessed serum neurofilament light and CSF neurofilament light levels in both preataxic and ataxic spinocerebelar ataxia1, leveraging a multicentric cohort recruited at 6 European university centers, and clinical follow-up data, including actually observed conversion to the ataxic stage . Levels of serum neurofilament light and CSF neurofilament light were assessed by single-molecule array and ELISA technique, respectively .

Forty individuals with spinocerebelar ataxia1 and 89 controls were enrolled, including 11 preataxic individuals converting to the ataxic stage. serum neurofilament light levels were increased at the preataxic and ataxic stage compared to controls, yielding high age-corrected effect sizes . serum neurofilament light increases were paralleled by increases of CSF neurofilament light at both the preataxic and ataxic stage . In preataxic individuals, serum neurofilament light levels increased with proximity to predicted ataxia onset, with significant serum neurofilament light elevations already 5 years before onset, and confirmed in preataxic individuals with actually observed ataxia onset . serum neurofilament light increases were detected already in preataxic individuals with spinocerebelar ataxia1 without volumetric atrophy of cerebellum or pons, suggesting that serum neurofilament light might be more sensitive to early preataxic neurodegeneration than the currently known most change-sensitive regions in volumetric MRI . Using longitudinal serum neurofilament light measurements, we estimated sample sizes for clinical trials with the reduction of serum neurofilament light as the endpoint .

serum neurofilament light levels might provide easily accessible peripheral biomarkers in both preataxic and ataxic spinocerebelar ataxia1, allowing stratification of preataxic individuals regarding proximity to onset, early detection of neurodegeneration even before volumetric MRI alterations, and potentially capture of treatment response in clinical trials .
