Evaluating and understanding the heterogeneity in dementia course has important implications for clinical practice, health care decision-making, and research . However, inconsistent findings have been reported with regard to the disease courses Alzheimer disease and dementia with Lewy bodies . Using autopsy-confirmed diagnoses, we aimed to examine the disease trajectories in the years before death among patients with dementia with pure Alzheimer disease, pure dementia with Lewy bodies, or mixed pathologies .

The current retrospective longitudinal study included 62 participants with autopsy-confirmed diagnoses of pure Alzheimer disease, mixed Alzheimer disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, or pure dementia with Lewy bodies from the Predictors 2 Cohort Study, a prospective, clinic-based, cohort of patients with dementia . Generalized estimating equation models, with time zero at death, were used to examine the trajectory of cognition, function, and Dependence Scale among patients with different autopsy-confirmed diagnosis . The models were Alzheimer diseasejusted for age, sex, education, and baseline features including extrapyramidal signs, MMSE, ADL, and Dependence Scale .

Cognition and function were highly correlated among patients with Alzheimer disease and dementia with Lewy bodies but not in pure Alzheimer disease or pure dementia with Lewy bodies at baseline . Patients of the 3 groups all declined in both cognition and function but had different trajectories of decline . More specifically, the patients with pure dementia with Lewy bodies experienced approximately double the rate of both cognitive decline and functional decline than the patients with pure Alzheimer disease, and the mixed pathology group showed double the rate of functional decline as compared to pure Alzheimer disease .

In this longitudinal study, we found that among patients with dementia, those with Lewy body pathology experienced faster cognitive and functional decline than those with pure Alzheimer disease pathology .
