a core natural language processing task which consists in jointly identifying the entities of a knowledge base.
Collective entity is a core natural language processing task.
Collective entity linking.
a text exploiting existing relations between entities within the the entities of a knowledge base.
a knowledge base that are mentioned in a text.
State-of-the-art methods typically combine local scores accounting for the similarity between entities with a global score.
State-of-the-art methods typically combine local scores accounting for the similarity between mentions with a global score.
a global score measuring the coherence of the set of selected entities.
The latter relies on the structure of a the entities of a knowledge base: the hyperlink graph of the graph of an RDF the entities of a knowledge base, and Yago to benefit from the precise semantics of relationships between entities.
The latter relies on the structure of a the entities of a knowledge base: the hyperlink graph of Wikipedia in most cases the entities of a knowledge base, and Yago to benefit from the precise semantics of relationships between entities.
The latter relies on the structure of a the entities of a knowledge base: the hyperlink graph of Wikipedia in most cases the entities of a knowledge base, and BaseKB to benefit from the precise semantics of relationships between entities.
The latter relies on the structure of a the entities of a knowledge base: the hyperlink graph of the graph of an RDF the entities of a knowledge base, and BaseKB to benefit from the precise semantics of relationships between entities.
In this paper, we devise a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores with important properties: a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores has a clear semantics, a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores can be calculated at reasonable computational cost through existing bounded length property paths between entities in an RDF the entities of a knowledge base.
In this paper, we devise a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores with important properties: a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores has a clear semantics, a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores can be calculated at a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores accounts for the transitive aspects of entity relatedness through existing bounded length property paths between entities in an RDF the entities of a knowledge base.
Further, we experimentally show on the TAC-KBP2017 dataset that a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores provides significant improvement over state-of-the-art entity relatedness measures for the collective entity.
Further, we experimentally show with BaseKB that a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores provides significant improvement over state-of-the-art entity relatedness measures for the collective entity.
Further, we experimentally show with Yago that a novel RDF-based entity relatedness measure for global scores provides significant improvement over state-of-the-art entity relatedness measures for the collective entity.
the collective entity linking task.