The idiopathic inflammatory myopathy dermatomyositis is an acquired disease that involves muscle, lung, and skin impairments . Patients with dermatomyositis show a wide range of severity of proximal skeletal muscle weakness, associated with inflammatory infiltrates, vasculitis, capillary dropout, and perifascicular myofiber atrophy . Muscles of patients with dermatomyositis show signs of muscle regeneration . Because muscle stem cells are responsible for myofiber repair, we wondered whether the proliferative properties of muscle stem cells are altered in dermatomyositis muscle . We investigated the role of type I interferon in this process because dermatomyositis is associated with sustained inflammation with high type I interferon levels .

muscle stem cells isolated from normal muscles and those from adult and juvenile patients with dermatomyositis were grown in culture and analyzed in vitro for their proliferating properties, myogenic capacities, and senescence. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments were performed to assess the role of type I interferon signaling in the proliferative capacities of muscle stem cells .

DM-muscle stem cells exhibited strongly reduced proliferating capacities as compared with healthy muscle stem cells, leading to poor myotube formation . DM-muscle stem cells were enriched in senescent, Beta-galactosidase–positive cells, partly explaining the proliferation defect . High concentrations of type I interferon decreased the proliferation of healthy muscle stem cells . Similarly, conditioned medium from DM-muscle stem cells decreased the proliferation of healthy muscle stem cells, suggesting the delivery of an autocrine effector . Pharmacologic blockade of IFN signaling in DM-muscle stem cells rescued their proliferation up to the control values .

These results show that autocrine type I interferon signaling prevents MuSC expansion, leading to muscle repair deficit . This process may explain the persistent muscle weakness observed in patients with severe dermatomyositis .
