Knowledge graphs are composed of entity nodes.
Knowledge graphs are composed of different elements.
Knowledge graphs are composed of relation edges.
Knowledge graphs are composed of literal nodes.
Each literal node contains an entity's attribute value -LRB- e.g. the height of an entity of type person -RRB- and thereby encodes information which in general can not be represented by relations between entities alone.
However, latent-feature-based methods for knowledge graph analysis only consider relation edges.
However, latent-feature-based methods for knowledge graph analysis thus do not take provided by literals into account.
However, latent-feature-based methods for knowledge graph analysis only consider entity nodes.
However, latent-feature-based methods for knowledge graph analysis thus do not take provided by literals into account.
However, most of the existing embedding thus do not take provided by literals into account.
However, most of the existing embedding only consider relation edges.
However, most of the existing embedding thus do not take provided by literals into account.
However, most of the existing embedding only consider entity nodes.
In this paper, we extend existing latent feature methods for link prediction by a simple portable module for incorporating literals, which we name LiteralE.
Unlike in concurrent methods where literals are incorporated by adding a literal-dependent term to the output of the scoring function and thus only indirectly affect the entity embeddings, LiteralE directly enriches these embeddings with information from literals via a learnable parametrized function.
a learnable parametrized function learned along with the entity embeddings in an end-to-end manner.
a learnable parametrized function can be easily integrated into the scoring function of existing methods.
In an extensive empirical study over three datasets, we evaluate LiteralE-extended versions of various state-of-the-art latent feature methods for link prediction and demonstrate that LiteralE presents an effective way to improve three datasets performance.
For these experiments, we augmented standard datasets with three datasets literals, which we publicly provide as testbeds for further research.
Moreover, we show that LiteralE leads to an qualitative improvement of the embeddings and that it can be easily extended to handle literals from different modalities.