The ATN framework has been developed to categorize biological processes within the Alzheimer disease continuum . Because Alzheimer disease pathology often coincides with dementia with Lewy bodies, we aimed to investigate the distribution of ATN profiles in dementia with Lewy bodies and associate ATN profiles in dementia with Lewy bodies with prognosis .

We included 202 patients with dementia with Lewy bodies from the Amsterdam Dementia Cohort . Patients were classified into 8 profiles according to the ATN framework, using CSF Beta-amyloid 42 , CSF p-tau , and medial temporal atrophy scores . We compared presence of clinical symptoms in ATN profiles and used linear mixed models to analyze decline on cognitive tests . Mortality risk was assessed using Cox proportional hazards analysis . Analyses were performed on the 8 profiles as well as 3 clustered categories .

Fifty patients with dementia with Lewy bodies had normal Alzheimer disease biomarkers, 37 had non-Alzheimer disease pathologic change, and 115 were classified within the Alzheimer disease continuum . A+T+N+ patients were older and least often had REM sleep behavior disorder symptoms . Parkinsonism was more often present in A+T− compared to A−T+ patients . Compared to patients with normal Alzheimer disease biomarkers, patients in A+ categories showed steeper decline on memory tests and higher mortality risk . Cognitive decline and mortality did not differ between non-Alzheimer disease pathologic change and normal Alzheimer disease biomarkers .

In our dementia with Lewy bodies cohort, we found clinically relevant associations between ATN categories and disease manifestation . Patients within the Alzheimer disease continuum had steeper cognitive decline and shorter survival . Implementing the ATN framework within patients with dementia with Lewy bodies aids in subtyping patients based on underlying biological processes and could provide targets for future treatment strategies . Expanding the framework by incorporating markers for alpha-synucleinopathy would improve the use of the framework to characterize patients with dementia with mixed pathology, which could enhance proper stratification of patients for therapeutic trials .
