Aducanumab was granted accelerated approval with a conflicting evidence base, near-unanimous Food and Drug Administration Advisory Committee vote to reject approval, and a widely criticized launch price of $56,000 per year . The objective of this analysis was to estimate its cost-effectiveness .

We developed a Markov model to compare aducanumab in addition to supportive care to supportive care alone over a lifetime horizon . Results were presented from both the health system and modified societal perspective . The model tracked the severity of disease and the care setting . Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated and a threshold analysis was conducted to estimate at what price aducanumab would meet commonly used cost-effectiveness thresholds .

Using estimates of effectiveness based on pooling of data from both pivotal trials, patients treated with aducanumab spent 4 more months in earlier stages of Alzheimer disease . Over the lifetime time horizon, treating a patient with aducanumab results in 0.154 more quality-adjusted life-years gained per patient and 0.201 equal value of life-years gained per patient from the health care system perspective, with additional costs of approximately $204,000 per patient . The incremental outcomes were similar for the modified societal perspective . At the launch price of $56,000 per year, the cost-effectiveness ranged from $1.02 million per equal value of life-years gained  to $1.33 million per quality-adjusted life-year gained from the health care system perspective and from $938,000 per equal value of life-years gained  to $1.27 million per quality-adjusted life-year gained in the modified societal perspective . The annual price to meet commonly used cost-effectiveness thresholds ranged from $2,950 to $8,360, which represents a discount of 85 percent to 95 percent off from the annual launch price set by the manufacturer . Using estimates of effectiveness based only on the trial that suggested a benefit, the mean incremental cost was greater than $400,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained .

Patients treated with aducanumab received minimal improvements in health outcomes at considerable cost . This resulted in incremental cost-effectiveness ratios that far exceeded commonly used value thresholds, even under optimistic treatment effectiveness assumptions . These findings are subject to the substantial uncertainty regarding whether aducanumab provides any true net health benefit, but evidence available currently suggests that an annual price of aducanumab of $56,000 is not in reasonable alignment with its clinical benefits .

