an AI planning task where automated Web Service Composition -LRB- automated Web Service Composition -RRB- is primarily done offline prior to execution.
Much of the research on automated Web Service Composition relates the research on automated Web Service Composition -LRB- automated Web Service Composition -RRB- to an AI planning task.
Recent research on automated Web Service Composition has argued convincingly for the importance of optimizing quality of user preferences.
Recent research on automated Web Service Composition has argued convincingly for the importance of optimizing quality of trust.
Recent research on automated Web Service Composition has argued convincingly for the importance of optimizing quality of service.
While some of this optimization can be done offline, many interesting optimizations must be done following execution of at least some information-gathering services.
While some of this optimization can be done offline, many useful optimizations must be done following execution of at least some information-gathering services.
While some of this optimization can be done offline, many interesting optimizations are data-dependent.
While some of this optimization can be done offline, many useful optimizations are data-dependent.
In this paper, we examine this class of automated Web Service Composition problems, attempting to balance the trade-off between online information gathering with a view to producing high-quality compositions efficiently gathering.
In this paper, we examine this class of automated Web Service Composition problems, attempting to balance the trade-off between offline composition with a view to producing high-quality compositions efficiently gathering.
In this paper, we examine this class of automated Web Service Composition problems, attempting to balance the trade-off between offline composition with a view to producing without excessive data gathering.
In this paper, we examine this class of automated Web Service Composition problems, attempting to balance the trade-off between online information gathering with a view to producing without excessive data gathering.
the semantic web employing an existing preference-based Hierarchical Task Network automated Web Service Composition system.
we investigation is performed in the context of the semantic web.
we experiments illustrate the potential improvement in both the quality and speed of composition generation approach.
composition generation afforded by we.