This prospective study sought to determine the association of modifiable and nonmodifiable components included in the Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia risk score with hippocampal volume loss and episodic memory decline in cognitively normal older adults classified as brain Beta-amyloid negative or Beta-amiloid positive .

Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle study participants who completed over 2 neuropsychological assessments and a brain Beta-amyloid PET scan were included in this study . We computed the Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia risk score and a modifiable Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia risk score for each participant . Beta-amyloid positive was classified using Centiloid above 25. Linear mixed models assessed interactions between each Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia score, Beta-amyloid group, and time on hippocampal volume loss and episodic memory decline . Age, sex, and APOE Epsilon4 were included as separate predictors in Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia-MR models to assess differential associations . Exploratory analyses examined relationships between individual modifiable risk factors and outcomes in Beta-amyloid negative cognitively normal adults .

We observed a significant Beta-amyloid group versus Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia versus time interaction on hippocampal volume loss but not episodic memory decline . Decomposition revealed a significant Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia versus time interaction in Beta-amyloid positive participants only . When modifiable and nonmodifiable Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia components were considered separately, we observed a significant Beta-amyloid group versus Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia-MR versus time interaction on episodic memory decline only . A significant Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Incidence of Dementia-MR score versus time interaction was observed in Beta-amyloid negative participants only . Significant interactions between APOE Epsilon4 and age versus time on hippocampal volume loss and episodic memory decline were observed in both groups . Exploratory analyses in Beta-amyloid negative cognitively normal participants revealed a significant interaction between BMI versus time on episodic memory decline .

These results are consistent with studies showing that increasing age and APOE Epsilon4 are associated with increased rates of hippocampal volume loss and episodic memory decline . In Beta-amyloid negative cognitively normal adults, lower prevalence of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors was associated with less hippocampal volume loss and episodic memory decline over ∼10 years, suggesting interventions to reduce modifiable cardiovascular risk factors could be beneficial in this group .
