The ability to integrate a wealth of human-curated knowledge from scientific datasets and ontologies can benefit drug-target interaction prediction.
similar targets interact with the same drugs.
The hypothesis is that similar drugs interact with the same targets.
The Our use semantic knowledge between drugs reflect a chemical semantic space, while Our use semantic knowledge between targets reflect a genomic semantic space.
In this paper, we present a novel method the edges of a heterogeneous graph.
In this paper, we present target-target similarity edges.
a novel method that combines Our use semantic knowledge ) from ontologies.
a novel method that combines semantic knowledge ) from ontologies.
a novel method that combines an algorithmic approach to partition.
a novel method that combines semantic knowledge ) from semantic spaces.
a novel method that combines a data mining framework for link prediction.
a novel method that combines Our use semantic knowledge ) from semantic spaces.
In this paper, we present drug-drug similarity edges.
a heterogeneous graph that includes drug-target interaction edges.
Our semantics based edge partitioning approach, semEP,.
Our semantics has the advantages of edge.
edge based community detection.
community detection which allows a node to participate in more than one cluster or community.
The semEP problem is to create a minimal partitioning of the edges such that the cluster density of each subset of edges is maximal.
Our use semantic knowledge to specify specific drug-target interaction edges that should not participate in the same cluster.
Our use semantic knowledge to specify edge constraints that should not participate in the same cluster.
Using a well-known dataset of drug-target interactions, we demonstrate the benefits of using semEP predictions to improve the performance of a range of state-of-the-art machine learning.
state-of-the-art machine learning based prediction methods.
the novel best predicted interactions of semEP against the STITCH interaction resource.
Validation of the novel best reflect both accurate and diverse predictions.