The amount of scholarly data available on the web is steadily increasing, enabling different types of analytics.
analytics which can provide important insights into the research activity.
In order to explore this large-scale body of knowledge we need an comprehensive ontology of research topics.
In order to explore this large-scale body of knowledge we need an up-to-date ontology of research topics.
In order to make sense of we need an up-to-date ontology of research topics.
In order to make sense of we need an comprehensive ontology of research topics.
In order to make sense of we need an accurate ontology of research topics.
In order to explore this large-scale body of knowledge we need an accurate ontology of research topics.
Unfortunately, human crafted classifications do not tend to be too coarse-grained.
Unfortunately, human crafted classifications do not satisfy these criteria, as human crafted classifications evolve too slowly.
indirect statistical relationships which can help to understand the relation between two topics.
indirect semantic relationships which can help to understand the relation between two topics.
Current automated methods for generating ontologies of research areas also present a number of limitations, such as: i ) Current automated methods for generating ontologies of research areas do not consider the rich amount of indirect semantic relationships.
Current automated methods for generating ontologies of research areas also present a number of limitations, such as: i ) Current automated methods for generating ontologies of research areas do not consider the rich amount of indirect statistical relationships.
In this paper we present Klink-2 by taking advantage of a variety of knowledge sources available on the web.
In this paper we present a novel approach by taking advantage of a variety of knowledge sources available on the web.
a novel approach which improves on we earlier work on automatic generation of semantic topic networks.
a novel approach which improves on we earlier work on addresses the aforementioned limitations.
In particular, Klink-2 analyses networks of research entities ( including authors ) to infer three kinds of semantic relationships between topics.
In particular, Klink-2 analyses networks of research entities ( including technologies ) to infer three kinds of semantic relationships between topics.
In particular, Klink-2 analyses networks of research entities ( including venues ) to infer three kinds of semantic relationships between topics.
In particular, Klink-2 analyses networks of research entities ( including papers ) to infer three kinds of semantic relationships between topics.
this paper also separates ambiguous keywords into the appropriate distinct topics.
this paper also identifies ambiguous keywords.
we experimental evaluation shows that the ability of Klink-2 to generate topics with accurate contextual meaning yields significant improvements over other algorithms in terms of both precision and recall.
we experimental evaluation shows that the ability of Klink-2 to integrate a high number of data sources.