The field of biomedicine has embraced the Semantic Web probably more than any other field.
biomedical ontologies covering overlapping areas of The field of biomedicine.
As a result, there is a large number of biomedical ontologies.
We have developed BioPortal— an open community-based repository of the ontologies themselves.
We analyzed ontologies in the Unified Medical Language System creating more than 4 million mappings between concepts in these ontologies and terminologies based on the lexical similarity of concept names and synonyms.
We analyzed ontologies in BioPortal creating more than 4 million mappings between concepts in these ontologies and terminologies based on the lexical similarity of concept names and synonyms.
We analyzed terminologies in the Unified Medical Language System creating more than 4 million mappings between concepts in these ontologies and terminologies based on the lexical similarity of concept names and synonyms.
We analyzed terminologies in BioPortal creating more than 4 million mappings between concepts in these ontologies and terminologies based on the lexical similarity of concept names and synonyms.
the ways in which the mappings can help in the process of ontology design and evaluation.
We then analyzed what the mappings tell us about the ways.
We then analyzed what the mappings tell us about the structure of the ontology repository.
We then analyzed what the mappings tell us about the ontologies the mappings.
We then analyzed the mappings.
the domain that are not covered sufficiently by the ontologies themselves in the ontology repository.
users who are new to a field to the most pertinent ontologies in The field of biomedicine, to identify areas of the domain.
For example, we can use the mappings to guide users.
For example, we can use the mappings to guide background knowledge in domain-specific tools.
users who are new to a field to the most pertinent ontologies in The field of biomedicine, to identify which ontologies will serve.
While We used a specific ( but large ) ontology repository for the study, we believe that the lessons we learned about the value of a large-scale set of mappings to ontology users and developers apply in many other domains.
While We used a specific ( but large ) ontology repository for the study, we believe that the lessons we learned about the value of a large-scale set of mappings to ontology users and developers are general.