The semantic discontinuity between World-Wide Web languages, and XML, XML Schema, and XPath, and Semantic Web languages, and RDF, RDFS, and DAMLOIL, forms a serious barrier for the stated goals of the World Wide Web.
The semantic discontinuity between World-Wide Web languages, and XML, XML Schema, and XPath, and Semantic Web languages, and RDF, RDFS, and DAMLOIL, results from a difference in modeling foundations between XML.
The semantic discontinuity between World-Wide Web languages, and XML, XML Schema, and XPath, and Semantic Web languages, and RDF, RDFS, and DAMLOIL, results from a difference in modeling foundations between logics.
We propose to eliminate The semantic discontinuity between World-Wide Web languages, and XML and Semantic Web languages.
We propose to RDF by creating a common semantic foundation for both the World Wide Web taking ideas from both.
We propose to DAMLOIL by creating a common semantic foundation for both the World Wide Web taking ideas from both.
We propose to eliminate The semantic discontinuity between World-Wide Web languages, and XML Schema and Semantic Web languages.
We propose to RDFS by creating a common semantic foundation for both the World Wide Web taking ideas from both.
We propose to eliminate The semantic discontinuity between World-Wide Web languages, and XPath and Semantic Web languages.
We propose to DAMLOIL by creating a common semantic foundation for both the World Wide Web taking ideas from both.
We propose to RDF by creating a common semantic foundation for both the World Wide Web taking ideas from both.
We propose to RDFS by creating a common semantic foundation for both the World Wide Web taking ideas from both.
a common semantic foundation results in essentially no change to XML, and only minor changes to RDF.
But a common semantic foundation allows the World Wide Web to get closer to the World Wide Web goal of describing the semantics of the World Wide Web.
Other Semantic Web languages ( including RDFS ) are considerably changed because of a common semantic foundation.
Other Semantic Web languages ( including DAMLOIL ) are considerably changed because of a common semantic foundation.