Pathogenic variants in the neuronal sodium channel alpha1 subunit gene are the most frequent monogenic cause of epilepsy . Phenotypes comprise a wide clinical spectrum, including severe childhood epilepsy, Dravet syndrome, and the milder genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus . Early recognition of a child's risk for developing Dravet syndrome versus genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus is key for implementing disease-modifying therapies when available before cognitive impairment emerges . Our objective was to develop and validate a prediction model using clinical and genetic biomarkers for early diagnosis of neuronal sodium channel alpha1 subunit gene-related epilepsies .

We performed a retrospective multicenter cohort study comprising data from patients with neuronal sodium channel alpha1 subunit gene-positive Dravet syndrome and patients with genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus consecutively referred for genetic testing including age at seizure onset and a newly developed neuronal sodium channel alpha1 subunit gene genetic score . A training cohort was used to develop multiple prediction models that were validated using 2 independent blinded cohorts . Primary outcome was the discriminative accuracy of the model predicting Dravet syndrome versus other genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus phenotypes .

A total of 1,018 participants were included . The frequency of Dravet syndrome was 83 percent in the training cohort, 72 percent in validation cohort 1, and 83 percent in validation cohort 2 . A high neuronal sodium channel alpha1 subunit gene genetic score and young age at onset were each associated with Dravet syndrome vs genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus . A combined neuronal sodium channel alpha1 subunit gene genetic score and seizure onset model separated Dravet syndrome from genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus more effectively and outperformed all other models . Model performance was replicated in both validation cohorts 1 and 2 .

The prediction model allows objective estimation at disease onset whether a child will develop Dravet syndrome vs genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus, assisting clinicians with prognostic counseling and decisions on early institution of precision therapies .
