Ontology alignment is an area of active research where many algorithms and approaches are being developed.
approaches performance is usually evaluated by comparing the produced alignments to a reference alignment in terms of F-measure.
approaches performance is usually evaluated by comparing the produced alignments to a reference alignment in terms of precision.
approaches performance is usually evaluated by comparing the produced alignments to a reference alignment in terms of recall.
many algorithms is usually evaluated by comparing the produced alignments to a reference alignment in terms of precision.
many algorithms is usually evaluated by comparing the produced alignments to a reference alignment in terms of F-measure.
many algorithms is usually evaluated by comparing the produced alignments to a reference alignment in terms of recall.
These measures, however, do not reveal differences between alignments at a finer-grained level such asindividual mappings.
These measures, however, only provide an overall assessment of the quality of the alignments.
These measures, however, do not reveal differences between alignments at a finer-grained level such as, e.g., regions.
These measures, however, only provide an overall assessment of the quality of the alignments.
These measures, however, do not reveal commonalities between alignments at a finer-grained level such asindividual mappings.
These measures, however, only provide an overall assessment of the quality of the alignments.
These measures, however, do not reveal commonalities between alignments at a finer-grained level such as, e.g., regions.
These measures, however, only provide an overall assessment of the quality of the alignments.
Furthermore, reference alignments are often unavailable, which makes the comparative exploration of alignments at different levels of granularity even more important.
Making such comparisons efficient calls for a `` human-in-the-loop '' approach, best supported through interactive visual representations of alignments.
Our approach extends a recent tool, Matrix Cubes, used for visualizing dense dynamic networks.
Our first identify use cases for ontology alignment evaluation that can benefit from interactive visualization, and then detail how Our Alignment Cubes support interactive exploration of multiple ontology alignments.
Our demonstrate the usefulness of Alignment Cubes by describing visual exploration scenarios, showing how Alignment Cubes identified in the use cases.