An important challenge in diagnosing anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis is differentiating it from a first episode of psychosis caused by a psychiatric disease . CSF antibody testing distinguishes these diseases, but spinal taps are difficult to obtain in psychiatric facilities . A separate problem is the lack of biomarkers of anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis severity and outcome. Here we assessed the performance of neurofilament light chain testing in these settings .

In this observational study, neurofilament light chain levels were determined with single-molecule array in patients with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis, pfirst episode of psychosis, herpes simplex encephalitis, and healthy participants, with the last 2 groups used as controls . Receiver operating characteristic analyses were performed to assess the prediction accuracy of serum neurofilament light chain levels for anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis and pfirst episode of psychosis and to obtain clinically useful cutoffs .

One hundred eighteen patients with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis, 45 with pfirst episode of psychosis, 36 with herpes simplex encephalitis, and 36  healthy participants were studied . Patients with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis with seizures and status epilepticus, intensive care unit admission, and CSF pleocytosis and without early immunotherapy were more likely to have higher neurofilament light chain than individuals with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis without these features . neurofilament light chain levels at diagnosis of anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis did not correlate with outcome at 1-year follow-up assessed with the modified Rankin Scale . Patients with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis had significantly higher sneurofilament light chain than individuals with pfirst episode of psychosis and  healthy participants and lower sneurofilament light chain than patients with herpes simplex encephalitis . receiver operating characteristics analysis of sneurofilament light chain between anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis with isolated psychosis and pfirst episode of psychosis provided an area under the curve of 0.93 and an sneurofilament light chain cutoff over 15 pg/mL to distinguish these disorders . Forty-three of 45 patients with first episode of psychosis had serun neurofilament light chain smaller than 15 pg/mL, whereas only 5 of 33 with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis with isolated psychosis were below this cutoff . None of the patients with herpes simplex encephalitis and 35 of 36 healthy participants had sneurofilament light chain smaller than 15 pg/mL .

neurofilament light chain measured at diagnosis of anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis associated with features of disease severity but not with long-term outcome . Young patients with first episode of psychosis and sneurofilament light chain over 15 pg/mL had a 120 times higher chance of having anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis than those with pfirst episode of psychosis . This cutoff correctly classified 96 percent of patients with first episode of psychosis and 85 percent of patients with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis with isolated psychosis . Patients with first episode of psychosis of unclear etiology and sneurofilament light chain over 15 pg/mL should undergo CSF anti–NMDA receptor antibody testing .
