The goal of this work was to investigate the neuroimaging correlates of the Stages of Objective Memory Impairment system operationalized with the Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test, a widely used episodic memory measure .

The Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test begins with a study phase in which items are identified in response to unique semantic cues that are used in the test phase to prompt recall of items not retrieved by free recall . There are 3 test trials of the 16 items . Data from 4,484 cognitively unimpaired participants from the Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer study were used . All participants had amyloid PET imaging, and a subset of 1,262 Beta-amyloid–positive had structural MRIs . We compared the Beta-amyloid mean cortical standardized uptake value ratio and volumetric measures of hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, entorhinal cortex, and inferior temporal cortex between the 5 Stages of Objective Memory Impairment stages .

Participants had a mean age of 71.3  years . Half had no memory impairment. the other half had retrieval deficits, storage limitations, or both . Analysis of covariance in the entire sample while controlling for age, sex, education, and APOE Epsilon4 showed that individuals in higher Stages of Objective Memory Impairment stages had higher global amyloid standardized uptake value ratio . Both Stages of Objective Memory Impairment-4 and Objective Memory Impairment-3 subgroups had higher amyloid standardized uptake value ratio than Stages of Objective Memory Impairment-0 and Stages of Objective Memory Impairment-1 subgroups . Individuals in higher Stages of Objective Memory Impairment stages had smaller hippocampal volume, entorhinal cortex, and inferior temporal lobes, but there was no difference between parahippocampal gyrus volume of different Stages of Objective Memory Impairment stages . Pairwise comparison of Stages of Objective Memory Impairment subgroups showed that the Stages of Objective Memory Impairment-4, Objective Memory Impairment-3, and Objective Memory Impairment-2 subgroups had smaller hippocampal volume than the Stages of Objective Memory Impairment-0 and Objective Memory Impairment-1 subgroup.  The Stages of Objective Memory Impairment-4 subgroup had significantly smaller entorhinal cortex and smaller inferior temporal lobe compared to all other groups .

Presence of Alzheimer disease pathology is closely related to memory impairment according to Stages of Objective Memory Impairment stages in the cognitively unimpaired sample of A4 . Results from structural MRIs suggest that memory storage impairment is present when there is widespread medial temporal lobe atrophy .
