tools supporting a ‘ zero-cost ’ approach to semantic web browsing.
Magpie is a suite of tools Magpie avoids the need for manual annotation by automatically associating an ontology-based semantic layer to web resources.
the association between items on a web page is the enabling condition for locating These services.
An important aspect of Magpie is that the association between items on a web page is not merely a mechanism for dynamic.
Magpie which differentiates Magpie from superficially similar hypermedia systems.
the association between items on a web page is the enabling condition for making These services available to a user.
the association between items on semantic concepts is the enabling condition for making These services available to a user.
the association between items on semantic concepts is the enabling condition for locating These services.
dynamic linking.
An important aspect of Magpie is that the association between items on semantic concepts is not merely a mechanism for dynamic.
These services can be manually activated by a user ).
These services can be triggered when the appropriate web entities are encountered during a browsing session ).
These services can be triggered when the appropriate web entities are encountered during push services ).
These services can be manually activated by pull services ).
In this paper we analyze Magpie from the perspective of building semantic web applications.
we note that earlier implementations did not fulfill the criterion of “ open as to services ”, which is a key aspect of the emerging semantic web.
For this reason, in the past twelve months we have carried out a radical redesign of Magpie.
a novel architecture which is open both with respect to semantic web services.
a novel architecture which is open both with respect to ontologies.
a radical redesign of Magpie resulting in a novel architecture.
a novel architecture can be seen as a software framework for designing semantic web applications.
a novel architecture which is open both with respect to semantic web services.
a novel architecture which is open both with respect to ontologies.
a novel architecture can be seen as a software framework for implementing semantic web applications.
a novel architecture goes beyond the idea of merely providing support for semantic web browsing.