Although flavonoids have the potential to exert neuroprotective benefits, evidence of their role in improving survival rates among individuals with Parkinson disease remains lacking . We aimed to prospectively study the association between prediagnosis and postdiagnosis flavonoid intakes and risk of mortality among individuals with Parkinson disease identified from 2 large ongoing cohorts of US men and women .

Included in the current analysis were 599 women from the Nurses Health Study and 652 men from the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study who were newly diagnosed with Parkinson disease during follow-up . Dietary intakes of total flavonoid and its subclasses, together with major flavonoid-rich foods were repeatedly assessed with a validated food frequency questionnaire every 4 years . Mortality was ascertained via the National Death Index and state vital statistics records .

We documented 944 deaths during 32 to 34 years of follow-up . A higher total flavonoid intake before Parkinson disease diagnosis was associated with a lower future risk for all-cause mortality in men but not in women after adjustment for age, smoking status, total energy intake, and other covariates . The pooled Hazard Ratio comparing the extreme quartiles was 0.70 with significant heterogeneity . For flavonoid subclasses, the highest quartile of anthocyanins, flavones, and flavan-3-ols intakes before diagnosis had a lower mortality risk compared to the lowest quartile . for berries and red wine, participants consuming over 3 servings per week had a lower risk compared to less then 1 serving per month . After Parkinson disease diagnosis, greater consumptions of total flavonoid, subclasses including flavonols, anthocyanins, flavan-3-ols, and polymers, and berries and red wine were associated with lower mortality risk .

Among individuals with Parkinson disease, higher consumption of flavonoids, especially anthocyanins and flavan-3-ols, and flavonoid-rich food such as berries and red wine was likely to be associated with a lower risk of mortality .

