Semantic models of data sources provide support to automate many tasks such as service composition.
writing these semantic descriptions by hand is a time-consuming task.
Semantic models of data sources provide support to automate many tasks such as source discovery.
Semantic models of services provide support to automate many tasks such as service composition.
writing these semantic descriptions by hand is a tedious task.
Semantic models of data sources provide support to automate many tasks such as data integration.
Semantic models of services provide support to automate many tasks such as data integration.
Semantic models of services provide support to automate many tasks such as source discovery.
Most of the related work focuses on automatic annotation with properties of source attributes.
Most of the related work focuses on automatic annotation with properties of input.
Most of the related work focuses on automatic annotation with classes of output parameters.
Most of the related work focuses on automatic annotation with classes of input.
Most of the related work focuses on automatic annotation with classes of source attributes.
Most of the related work focuses on automatic annotation with properties of output parameters.
However, constructing a source model remains a largely unsolved problem.
a source model that includes the relationships between the attributes in addition to the attributes in addition semantic types.
known sources that have been modeled over the same domain ontology.
In this paper, we present a graph-based approach to hypothesize a rich semantic description of a new target source from a set of known sources.
We exploit the same domain ontology to build a graph.
a graph that represents the space of plausible source descriptions.
We exploit the known source models to build a graph.
Then, we compute the top k candidates and suggest to the user a ranked list of the semantic models for the new source.
known sources that have been modeled over the same domain ontology.
a graph-based approach to hypothesize a rich semantic description of a new target source from a set of known sources takes into account user corrections to learn more accurate semantic descriptions of future data sources.
models that are twice as accurate than the models.
the art system that does not learn from prior models.
Our evaluation shows that Our method produces models.
the models produced using a state of the art system.