This paper describes the first steps towards developing a methodology for testing.
This paper describes the first steps towards evaluating the performance of reasoners for the probabilistic description logic P-SHIQ.
Since This paper is a new formalism for handling uncertainty in DL ontologies, no such methodology has been proposed.
There are no sufficiently large probabilistic ontologies to be used as test suites.
no single problem ( like classification in classical DL ) that could be an obvious candidate for benchmarking.
no single problem ( like realization in classical DL ) that could be an obvious candidate for benchmarking.
In addition, since the reasoning services in P-SHIQ are mostly query oriented, there is no single problem ( like classification in classical DL ).
In addition, since the reasoning services in P-SHIQ are mostly query oriented, there is no single problem ( like realization in classical DL ).
All these issues make it hard to evaluate the performance of reasoners.
All these issues make it hard to reveal the complexity bottlenecks.
All these issues make it hard to assess the value of optimization strategies.
breast cancer which poses significant challenges for the state-of-art P-SHIQ reasoners.
a probabilistic ontology that has been developed for the real-life domain of breast cancer.
This paper addresses these important problems by making the following contributions: This paper addresses describes a probabilistic ontology.
This paper addresses these important problems by making the following contributions: First describes a probabilistic ontology.
probabilistic reasoning problems that enable evaluation of the reasoning performance.
Second, This paper addresses explains a systematic approach to generating a series of probabilistic reasoning problems.
Second, This paper addresses shed light on what makes reasoning in P-SHIQ hard in practice.
Finally, This paper presents an.
an optimized algorithm for the non-monotonic entailment.
This paper positive impact on performance is demonstrated using our evaluation methodology.