Ontology matching is one of the key research topics in the field of the Semantic Web.
many matching systems that generate mappings between different ontologies either automatically.
There are many matching systems or semi-automatically.
many matching systems that generate mappings between different ontologies.
However, the mappings generated by many matching systems.
However, the mappings automatically may be inconsistent with the ontologies.
However, the mappings semi-automatically may be inconsistent with the ontologies.
Several approaches have been proposed to deal with the inconsistencies between mappings.
Several approaches have been proposed to deal with the inconsistencies between ontologies.
This problem is often called a mapping revision problem, as the ontologies are assumed to be correct, whereas mappings are repaired when resolving the inconsistencies between ontologies.
This problem is often called a mapping revision problem, as the ontologies are assumed to be correct, whereas ontologies are repaired when resolving the inconsistencies between mappings.
This problem is often called a mapping revision problem, as the ontologies are assumed to be correct, whereas mappings are repaired when resolving the inconsistencies between mappings.
This problem is often called a mapping revision problem, as the ontologies are assumed to be correct, whereas ontologies are repaired when resolving the inconsistencies between ontologies.
In this paper, we show that it can be characterized by two logical postulates adapted from some existing postulates for belief base revision.
In this paper, we first propose a conflict-based mapping revision operator.
we then provide an algorithm for iterative mapping revision by using an ontology revision operator.
we then show that an algorithm defines a conflict-based mapping revision operator.
the iterative algorithm which result in three different mapping revision algorithms.
Three concrete ontology revision operators are given to instantiate the iterative algorithm.
we provide some preliminary but interesting evaluation results.
we implement three different mapping revision algorithms.