Late neuropathologies of repetitive head impacts from contact sports can include Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) and white matter degeneration . White Matter Hyperintensities (WMH) on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery MRI scans are often viewed as microvascular disease from vascular risk, but might have unique underlying pathologies and risk factors in the setting of repetitive head impacts . We investigated the neuropathologic correlates of antemortem WMH in brain donors exposed to repetitive head impacts . The association between WMH and repetitive head impact exposure and informant-reported cognitive and daily function were tested .

This imaging–pathologic correlation study included symptomatic male decedents exposed to repetitive head impacts . Donors had antemortem fluid-attenuated inversion recovery scans from medical records and were without evidence of CNS neoplasm, large vessel infarcts, hemorrhage, or encephalomalacia . WMH were quantified using log-transformed values for Total Lesion Volume (TLV), calculated using the lesion prediction algorithm from the Lesion Segmentation Toolbox. Neuropathologic assessments included semiquantitative ratings of white matter rarefaction, cerebrovascular disease, hyperphosphorylated-tau, and Beta-Amyloid . Among football players, years of play was a proxy for repetitive head impact exposure . Retrospective informant-reported cognitive and daily function were assessed using the Cognitive Difficulties Scale (CDS) and Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ) .

The sample included 75 donors: 67 football players and 8 nonfootball contact sport athletes or military veterans . Dementia was the most common MRI indication .

WMH might capture long-term white matter pathologies from repetitive head impacts, including those from white matter rarefaction and hyperphosphorylated-tau, in addition to microvascular disease. Prospective imaging–pathologic correlation studies are needed.

This study provides Class IV evidence of associations between fluid-attenuated inversion recovery white matter hyperintensities and neuropathologic changes, years of American football play, and reported cognitive symptoms in symptomatic brain donors exposed to repetitive head impacts.

