The prevalence of midlife cardiovascular conditions and risk factors is higher in men than women . Associations between midlife cardiovascular conditions or risk factors and midlife cognitive decline have been reported, but few studies have assessed sex differences in these associations .

We included 1,857 participants enrolled in the population-based Mayo Clinic Study of Aging who were 50 to 69 years of age at baseline . Participants were evaluated every 15 months by a coordinator, including neurologic evaluation and neuropsychological testing . The neuropsychological testing used 9 tests to calculate global cognitive and domain-specific  z scores . Nurse abstractors reviewed participant medical records to determine the presence of cardiovascular conditions and risk factors . Linear mixed-effect models evaluated the association between baseline cardiovascular conditions or risk factors and global and domain-specific cognitive decline . Multivariable models adjusted for demographics, APOE genotype, depression, and other medical conditions . Interactions between sex and each cardiovascular condition or risk factor were examined, and results were stratified by sex .

Overall, 1,465 participants had at least 1 cardiovascular condition or risk factor. The proportion of men was higher than women . Cross-sectionally, coronary heart disease and ever smoking were associated with a lower visuospatial z score in multivariable models . Longitudinally, several cardiovascular conditions and risk factors were associated with declines in global and domain-specific z scores but not visuospatial z scores . Most cardiovascular conditions were more strongly associated with cognition among women. coronary heart disease and other cardiovascular conditions were associated with global cognitive decline only in women . In addition, diabetes, dyslipidemia, and coronary heart disease were associated with language z score decline only in women . However, congestive heart failure was associated with language z score decline only in men .

Midlife cardiovascular conditions and risk factors are associated with midlife cognitive decline . Moreover, specific cardiovascular conditions and risk factors have stronger associations with cognitive decline in midlife for women than men despite the higher prevalence of those conditions in men .

