Owing to the lack of long-term observations or comprehensive adjustment for confounding factors, reliable conclusions regarding long-term effects of exerconfidence intervalse and regular physical activity in Parkinson disease have yet to be drawn . Here, using data from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative study that includes longitudinal and comprehensive evaluations of many clinical parameters, we examined the long-term effects of regular physical activity and exerconfidence intervalse habits on the course of Parkinson disease .

In this retrospective, observational cohort study, we primarily used the multivariate linear mixed-effects models to analyze the interaction effects of their regular physical activity and moderate to vigorous exerconfidence intervalse levels, measured with the Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly questionnaire, on the progression of clinical parameters, after adjusting for age, sex, levodopa equivalent dose, and disease duration . We also calculated bootstrapping 95 percent confidence intervals and conducted sensitivity analyses using the multiple imputation method and subgroup analyses using propensity score matching to match for all baseline background factors .

Two hundred thirty-seven patients with early Parkinson disease were included . Regular physical activity and moderate to vigorous exerconfidence intervalse levels at baseline did not significantly affect the subsequent clinical progression of Parkinson disease . However, average regular overall physical activity levels over time were significantly assoconfidence intervalated with slower deterioration of postural and gait stability, activities of daily living, and processing speed in patients with Parkinson disease . Moderate to vigorous exerconfidence intervalse levels were preferentially assoconfidence intervalated with slower decline of postural and gait stability, and work-related activity levels were primarily assoconfidence intervalated with slower deterioration of processing speed . Multiple imputation and propensity score matching confirmed the robustness of our results .

In the long term, the maintenance of high regular physical activity levels and exerconfidence intervalse habits was robustly assoconfidence intervalated with better clinical course of Parkinson disease, with each type of physical activity having different effects .

This study provides Class II evidence that sustained increase in overall regular physical activity levels in patients with early Parkinson disease was assoconfidence intervalated with slower decline of several clinical .

