In addition to querying, Semantic Web programmers could really benefit from enabling Semantic Web programmers to directly define functions on SPARQL results.
In addition to dedicated to representation, Semantic Web programmers could really benefit from enabling Semantic Web programmers to directly define functions on SPARQL results.
In addition to querying, Semantic Web programmers could really benefit from enabling Semantic Web programmers to directly define functions on RDF terms.
In addition to dedicated to representation, Semantic Web programmers could really benefit from enabling Semantic Web programmers to directly define functions on RDF terms.
In addition to dedicated to representation, Semantic Web programmers could really benefit from enabling Semantic Web programmers to directly define functions on RDF graphs.
In addition to querying, Semantic Web programmers could really benefit from enabling Semantic Web programmers to directly define functions on RDF graphs.
This is especially the case, for instance, when defining SPARQL extension functions.
The ability to capitalize complex SPARQL filter expressions into extension functions or to define and reuse dedicated aggregates are real cases where a dedicated language can support modularity and maintenance of the code.
Other families of use cases include the definition of associated to RDF resources.
Other families of use cases include the definition of the definition of procedural attachments as assigned to OWL classes with the selection of the function to be applied to a resource depending on the type of a resource.
Other families of use cases include the definition of the definition of procedural attachments as assigned to RDFS classes with the selection of the function to be applied to a resource depending on the type of a resource.
Other families of use cases include the definition of associated to RDF resources.
To address these needs we define LDScript, a Linked Data script language on top of the SPARQL filter expression language.
We provide the formal grammar of the Natural Semantics inference rules of the semantics of the language.
We provide the formal grammar of the syntax inference rules of the semantics of the language.
We also provide a benchmark and perform using real test bases from W3C with comparing, in script interpretation.
We also provide a benchmark and perform using real test bases from W3C with comparing, in Java compilation.
We also provide a benchmark and perform using real test bases from W3C with comparing, in particular.