Cholinergic degeneration and Beta-amyloid contribute to brain atrophy and cognitive dysfunormal controlstion in Alzheimer disease and Lewy body disease, but their relationship has not been comparatively evaluated .

In this cross-sectional study, we recruited 28 normal controls, 55 patients with Alzheimer disease mild cognitive impairment (mild cognitive impairment), 34 patients with Alzheimer disease dementia, 28 patients with Lewy body disease mild cognitive impairment, and 51 patients with Lewy body disease dementia . Participants underwent cognitive evaluation, brain MRI to measure the basal forebrain volume and global cortical thickness, and 18F-florbetaben PET to measure the standardized uptake value ratio . Using general linear models and path analyses, we evaluated the association of 18F-florbetaben-standardized uptake value ratio and  basal forebrain volume with  cortical thickness or cognitive dysfunormal controlstion in the Alzheimer disease spectrum and Lewy body disease spectrum, respectively. Covariates inormal controlsluded age, sex, education, deep and periventricular white matter hyperintensities, intracranial volume, hypertension, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia .

basal forebrain volume mediated the association between 18F-florbetaben-standardized uptake value ratio and  cortical thickness in both the Alzheimer disease and Lewy body disease spectra, while 18F-florbetaben-standardized uptake value ratio was associated with  cortical thickness independently of  basal forebrain volume only in the Lewy body disease spectrum . Significant correlation between voxel-wise 18F-florbetaben-standardized uptake value ratio and  cortical thickness was observed only in the Lewy body disease group . 18F-florbetaben-standardized uptake value ratio was independently associated with widespread Alzheimer disease cognitive dysfunormal controlstion in both the Alzheimer disease and Lewy body disease spectra, especially in the memory domain . In the Alzheimer disease spectrum,  basal forebrain volume was associated with memory dysfunormal controlstion, and  cortical thickness was associated with language and executive dysfunormal controlstion . In the Lewy body disease spectrum, however,  basal forebrain volume and  cortical thickness were independently associated with widespreAlzheimer disease cognitive dysfunormal controlstion .

There is a common Beta-amyloid–related degenerative mechanism with or without the mediation of  basal forebrain in the Alzheimer disease and Lewy body disease spectra, while the association of  basal forebrain atrophy with cognitive dysfunormal controlstion is more profound and there is localized Beta-amyloid–cortical atrophy interaction in the Lewy body disease spectrum .

