the current Wikipedia has embraced the power of collaborative editing to harness collective intelligence.
the current Wikipedia can also serve as an ideal Semantic Web data source due to influence.
the current Wikipedia can also serve as an ideal Semantic Web data source due to the current Wikipedia abundance.
the current Wikipedia can also serve as an ideal Semantic Web data source due to high quality.
the current Wikipedia can also serve as an ideal Semantic Web data source due to well-structuring.
However, the heavy burden of maintaining such an enormous and ever-growing online encyclopedic knowledge base still rests on a very small group of people.
However, the heavy burden of up-building still rests on a very small group of people.
Many casual users may still feel difficulties in writing high quality the current Wikipedia articles.
In this paper, we use RDF graphs to model the key elements in the current Wikipedia authoring, and propose an integrated solution to make the current Wikipedia authoring easier based on RDF graph matching.
RDF graph matching expecting making more Wikipedians.
2 ) a category suggestion module that helps the user place 2.
we solution facilitates semantics reuse and provides users with: 1 ) a link suggestion module a category suggestion module.
1 ) a link suggestion module that auto-completes internal links between the current Wikipedia articles for the user; 2 ) a category suggestion module -RRB-.
1 ) a link suggestion module that suggests internal links between the current Wikipedia articles for the user; 2 ) a category suggestion module -RRB-.
a category suggestion module that helps the user place articles in correct categories.
experimental results show significant improvements over existing solutions to category suggestion tasks.
A prototype system is implemented.
experimental results show significant improvements over existing solutions to link suggestion tasks.
The proposed enhancements can be applied to attract more contributors.
The proposed enhancements can be applied to relieve the burden of professional editors, thus enhancing the current Wikipedia to make the current Wikipedia an even better Semantic Web data source.