For a number of years now we have seen the emergence of repositories of research data specified using OWLRDF as representation languages.
For a number of years now we have seen the emergence of repositories of research data conceptualized according to a variety of ontologies.
This class of solutions promises both to facilitate the integration of research data with other relevant sources of information and also to support more intelligent forms of exploration.
This class of solutions promises both to facilitate the integration of research data with other relevant sources of information and also to support more intelligent forms of querying.
the relations that exist between research areas.
an issue which has only been partially addressed.
However, an issue is that of characterizing semantically the relations.
However, an issue is that of generating semantically the relations.
This problem has been traditionally addressed by manually creating these taxonomies.
However.
these taxonomies do not cater for the fine-grained research topics.
the fine-grained research topics which define the level at which typically and even more so, PhD students ) operate.
these taxonomies are very coarse-grained.
this manual approach is inadequate for a number of reasons.
the fine-grained research topics which define the level at which typically researchers ) operate.
and even more so, PhD students -RRB- evolve slowly.
therefore researchers -RRB- tend not to cover the most recent research trends.
researchers -RRB- evolve slowly.
therefore and even more so, PhD students -RRB- tend not to cover the most recent research trends.
Moreover.
In addition, as we move towards a semantic characterization of these relations, there is arguably a need for a more sophisticated characterization than a homogeneous taxonomy, to reflect the different ways.
the different ways in which research areas can be related.
external knowledge which is drawn from a number of resources.
both machine learning methods.
In this paper we propose Klink, a new approach to i ) Wikipedia.
In this paper we propose Klink, a new approach to i ) Google Scholar.
In this paper we propose Klink, a new approach to i ) automatically generating relations between research areas and ii ) and external knowledge.
research areas and ii ) which combines both machine.
research areas and ii ) populating a bibliographic ontology.
We have tested a number of We evaluation shows that a method performs best with respect to a manually constructed standard.
We have tested a number of alternative algorithms evaluation shows that a method performs best with respect to a manually constructed standard.
a method relying on the ability to detect temporal relations between research areas.
a method relying on both external knowledge to detect temporal relations between research areas.