With thousands of ontologies available today in many different domains, ranking has become an important problem.
With hundreds of ontologies available today in many different domains, ontology search has become an timely problem.
With thousands of ontologies available today in many different domains, ontology search has become an timely problem.
With thousands of ontologies available today in many different domains, ontology search has become an important problem.
With thousands of ontologies available today in many different domains, ranking has become an timely problem.
With hundreds of ontologies available today in many different domains, ranking has become an timely problem.
With hundreds of ontologies available today in many different domains, ranking has become an important problem.
With hundreds of ontologies available today in many different domains, ontology search has become an important problem.
ontologies that contain her terms of interest.
When a user searches a collection of ontologies for her terms of interest, there are often dozens of ontologies.
How does her know which ontology is the most relevant to her search?.
Our research group hosts BioPortal .
Our research group hosts a public repository of more than 330 ontologies in the biomedical domain.
When a term that a user searches for is available in multiple ontologies, how do Our rank the results.
how do Our measure how well Our ranking works?.
In this paper, Our develop an evaluation framework.
an evaluation framework that enables developers to compare the performance of different ontology-ranking methods.
an evaluation framework that enables developers to analyze the performance of different ontology-ranking methods.
Our framework is determining how often users select the top link that the search engine offers.
Our framework is based on processing search logs.
Our evaluate Our framework by analyzing the data on BioPortal searches.
Our measure the effectiveness of each ranking by measuring how often users click on the highest ranked ontology.
Our explore several different ranking algorithms.
Our collected log data from more than 4,800 BioPortal searches.
Our results show that regardless of the ranking, in more than half the searches, users select the first link.
Thus, it is even more critical to ensure that the ranking is appropriate if Our want to have satisfied users.
Our further analysis demonstrates that ranking ontologies based on page view data significantly improves the user experience, with an approximately 26.