Observational studies in the literature have highlighted low levels of user satisfaction in relation to the support for ontology visualization and exploration provided by current ontology engineering tools.
These issues are particularly problematic for non-expert users.
non-expert users who rely on effective tool support to abstract from representational details.
non-expert users who rely on effective tool support to be able to make the structure of ontologies.
non-expert users who rely on effective tool support to be able to make sense of the contents.
To address These issues, we have developed a novel solution for navigating ontologies, KC-Viz starting from the most information-rich nodes ).
KC-Viz which exploits an empirically-validated ontology summarization method, both to provide concise views of large ontologies, and also to support a ‘ middle-out ’ ontology navigation approach.
To address These issues, we have developed a novel solution for visualizing ontologies, KC-Viz starting from the most information-rich nodes ).
To address These issues, we have developed a novel solution for visualizing ontologies, KC-Viz starting from key concepts ).
To address These issues, we have developed a novel solution for navigating ontologies, KC-Viz starting from key concepts ).
users tackling visualization tasks.
the encouraging results derived from a preliminary empirical evaluation.
a preliminary empirical evaluation which suggest that the use of KC-Viz provides performance advantages to users.
In this paper we present the main features of KC-Viz.
users tackling realistic browsing.
In this paper we also discuss the encouraging results.
Supplementary data gathered through questionnaires that prior experience in ontology engineering affects not just objective performance in ontology engineering tasks but also subjective views on the usability of ontology engineering tools.
Supplementary data gathered through evidence that prior experience in ontology engineering affects not just objective performance in ontology engineering tasks but also subjective views on the usability of ontology engineering tools.