Carotid intima-media thickness is a measurement of atherosclerosis, a progressive disease that develops as early as childhood and has been linked with cognitive impairment and dementia in the elderly . However, the relationship between Carotid intima-media thickness and midlife cognitive function and the race and social disparities in this relationship remain unclear . We examined the association between Carotid intima-media thickness and cognitive function in midlife among Black and White participants from a semirural community-based cohort in Bogalusa, Louisiana .

In this cross-sectional analysis of participants from the Bogalusa Heart Study, linear regression models were used to determine the association between Carotid intima-media thickness dichotomized above the 50th percentile, an a demographically standardized global cognitive score, and individual cognitive domain–based z scores . Stratified analyses were performed to evaluate the impact of race and the individual education status .

Having a Carotid intima-media thickness above the 50th percentile was inversely associated with global cognitive score, independently of cardiovascular risk factors and achieved education . The effect remained significant in Black and White participants after adjustment for cardiovascular risk factors but not for education . The interaction between Carotid intima-media thickness ≥50th percentile and education was significant, and stratified analysis showed an association with global cognitive score among those with lower achieved education independently of major cardiovascular risk factors .

Subclinical atherosclerosis, measured as Carotid intima-media thickness, was associated with worse midlife cognitive function, independently of major cardiovascular risk factors . The association was buffered by education and may be stronger among Black than White participants, likely due to corresponding structural and social determinants . These findings underscore the importance of establishing preventive measures in midlife and suggest subclinical atherosclerosis as a potential target to prevent cognitive decline .
