We present Redgraph .
We present the first generic virtual reality visualization program for Semantic Web data.
Redgraph is capable of handling large data-sets, as we demonstrate on social network data from the U.S. Patent Trade Office.
the first generic virtual reality visualization program for Semantic Web data is capable of handling large data-sets, as we demonstrate on social network data from the U.S. Patent Trade Office.
We develop a Semantic Web vocabulary of virtual reality terms compatible with GraphXML to map graph visualization into the Semantic Web the Semantic Web.
We approach to visualizing Semantic Web data takes advantage of user-interaction in an immersive environment to bypass a number of difficult issues in 3-dimensional graph visualization layout by relying on users users themselves to interactively extrude the nodes and links of a 2-dimensional graph into the third dimension.
data formatted according to social network data schema or ontology.
When users touch nodes in the virtual reality environment, users retrieve data.
social network data constructed from institutions from the United States Patent in order to explore networks of innovation in computing.
social network data constructed from institutions from Trademark Office in order to explore networks of innovation in computing.
social network data constructed from inventors from the United States Patent in order to explore networks of innovation in computing.
We applied the first generic virtual reality visualization program for Semantic Web data to social network data.
We applied Redgraph to social network data.
social network data constructed from inventors from Trademark Office in order to explore networks of innovation in computing.
social network data constructed from patents from the United States Patent in order to explore networks of innovation in computing.
social network data constructed from patents from Trademark Office in order to explore networks of innovation in computing.
a user study comparing extrusion vs. no-extrusion.
Using this data-set, results of a user study are presented.
a user study comparing extrusion -RRB- vs. no-extrusion -RRB-.
a user study comparing extrusion -RRB- vs. no-extrusion -RRB-.
a user study showed the use of a extrusion interface by subjects led to significant improvement on answering of fine-grained questions about this data-set.
no significant difference was found for broad questions about the overall structure of social network data.
a user study comparing extrusion -RRB- vs. no-extrusion -RRB-.
a user study comparing extrusion -RRB- vs. no-extrusion -RRB-.
Furthermore, inference can be used to improve the visualization, as demonstrated with a data-set of biotechnology patents and researchers.