For easing the exchange of news, the International Press Telecommunication Council has developed the NewsML Architecture, an XML-based model.
an XML-based model that is specialized into a number of languages such as EventsML G2.
an XML-based model that is specialized into a number of languages such as NewsML G2.
an XML-based model that is specialized into a number of languages such as NewsML G2.
As part of the NewsML Architecture -RRB-, an XML-based model specific controlled vocabularies, such as the the International Press Telecommunication Council News Codes, are used to categorize news items together with other industry-standard thesauri.
As part of the NewsML Architecture -RRB-, an XML-based model specific controlled vocabularies, such as the the International Press Telecommunication Council News Codes, are used to categorize news items together with other industry-standard thesauri.
an XML-based model that is specialized into a number of languages such as EventsML G2.
While news is still mainly in the form of text-based stories, these are often illustrated with images.
While news is still mainly in the form of text-based stories, these are often illustrated with videos.
While news is still mainly in the form of text-based stories, these are often illustrated with graphics.
Media-specific metadata formats, such as EXIF are used to describe the media.
Media-specific metadata formats, such as DIG35 are used to describe the media.
Media-specific metadata formats, such as XMP are used to describe the media.
The use of different metadata formats in a single production process leads to interoperability problems within the news production chain the news production chain.
the news production chain also excludes linking to existing web knowledge resources.
the news production chain also impedes the construction of uniform end-user interfaces for browsing news content.
the news production chain also impedes the construction of uniform end-user interfaces for searching news content.