Analysing the performance of OWL reasoners on expressive OWL ontologies is an ongoing challenge.
performance analysis based on justifications for entailments of OWL ontologies.
In this paper, we present a new approach to performance analysis.
Justifications are minimal subsets of an ontology.
an ontology that are sufficient for an entailment to hold.
an ontology that are commonly used to debug OWL ontologies.
test which means that individual justifications are tested for correctness performance instead of random subsets.
test which means that individual justifications are tested for reasoner performance instead of random subsets.
test which means that individual justifications are tested for reasoner performance instead of entire ontologies.
test which means that individual justifications are tested for correctness performance instead of entire ontologies.
In JustBench, justifications form the key unit of test.
Justifications are relatively easy to analyse which makes Justifications very suitable for transparent analytic micro-benchmarks.
Justifications are generally small which makes Justifications very suitable for transparent analytic micro-benchmarks.
Furthermore, the JustBench approach also allows us to isolate inconsistent behaviour.
Furthermore, the JustBench approach also allows us to isolate reasoner errors.
the results of initial experiments using JustBench with FaCT.
us present the results of initial experiments.
the results of initial experiments using JustBench with HermiT.
the results of initial experiments using JustBench with Pellet.
reasoner developers seeking to understand the performance characteristics of ontologies.
ontology engineers seeking to understand the performance characteristics of reasoners.
reasoner developers seeking to understand the performance characteristics of reasoners.
Finally, us show how JustBench can be used by reasoner developers.
ontology engineers seeking to improve the performance characteristics of ontologies.
reasoner developers seeking to improve the performance characteristics of ontologies.
reasoner developers seeking to improve the performance characteristics of reasoners.
ontology engineers seeking to understand the performance characteristics of ontologies.
ontology engineers seeking to improve the performance characteristics of reasoners.
Finally, us show how JustBench can be used by ontology engineers.