Ontologies are tools for describing knowledge, with many applications in searching complex knowledge bases.
Ontologies are tools for structuring knowledge, with many applications in searching complex knowledge bases.
Ontologies are tools for describing knowledge, with many applications in analyzing complex knowledge bases.
Ontologies are tools for structuring knowledge, with many applications in analyzing complex knowledge bases.
Since building many applications in analyzing complex knowledge bases manually is a costly process, there are various approaches for bootstrapping ontologies automatically through the analysis of appropriate documents.
Since building many applications in searching complex knowledge bases manually is a costly process, there are various approaches for bootstrapping ontologies automatically through the analysis of appropriate documents.
Such an analysis needs to find the concepts.
the relationships that should form the ontology.
Such an analysis needs to find the relationships.
However, since relationship extraction methods are imprecise the initial set of relationships is usually inconsistent a problem which, to the best of our knowledge, was mostly ignored so far.
However, since relationship extraction methods are imprecise the initial set of relationships is rather uneven a problem which, to the best of our knowledge, was mostly ignored so far.
However, since relationship extraction methods can not homogeneously cover all concepts the initial set of relationships is usually inconsistent a problem which, to the best of our knowledge, was mostly ignored so far.
However, since relationship extraction methods can not homogeneously cover all concepts the initial set of relationships is rather uneven a problem which, to the best of our knowledge, was mostly ignored so far.
In this paper, our define the problem of extracting a consistent as well as properly structured ontology from a set of inconsistent relationships.
In this paper, our define the problem of extracting a consistent as well as properly structured ontology from a set of heterogeneous relationships.
Moreover, we compare three graph-based methods for solving the ontology extraction problem.
Moreover, we propose three graph-based methods for solving the ontology extraction problem.
our extract relationships from a large-scale data set of more than 325K documents.
our extract relationships from evaluate our methods against a gold standard ontology.
a gold standard ontology comprising more than 12K relationships.
an algorithm based on a modified formulation of the dominating set problem.
our study shows that an algorithm outperforms greedy methods.