Recently, the W3C Linking Open Data effort has boosted the publication and inter-linkage of large amounts of RDF datasets on the Semantic Web.
knowledge bases with millions of RDF triples from other sources mostly in e-science, are publicly available.
knowledge bases with millions of RDF triples from Wikipedia mostly in e-science, are publicly available.
knowledge bases with millions of RDF triples from Wikipedia mostly in e-science, have been created.
Various ontologies with millions of RDF triples from other sources mostly in e-science, are publicly available.
Various ontologies with millions of RDF triples from other sources mostly in e-science, have been created.
Various ontologies with millions of RDF triples from Wikipedia mostly in e-science, have been created.
knowledge bases with millions of RDF triples from other sources mostly in e-science, have been created.
Various ontologies with millions of RDF triples from Wikipedia mostly in e-science, are publicly available.
RDF triples aggregated from different heterogeneous sources.
Recording provenance information of RDF triples is crucial in order to effectively support trust mechanisms.
Recording provenance information of RDF triples is crucial in order to effectively support privacy policies.
Recording provenance information of RDF triples is crucial in order to effectively support digital rights.
Managing provenance becomes even more important when we consider not only explicitly stated for querying RDF graphs.
Managing provenance becomes even more important when we consider implicit triples ( through RDFS inference rules ) in conjunction with declarative languages for updating RDF graphs.
Managing provenance becomes even more important when we consider not only explicitly stated for updating RDF graphs.
Managing provenance becomes even more important when we consider implicit triples ( through RDFS inference rules ) in conjunction with declarative languages for querying RDF graphs.
In this paper we rely on colored RDF triples represented as quadruples to capture explicit provenance information.
In this paper we rely on colored RDF triples represented as quadruples to manipulate explicit provenance information.