Increasingly, organizations are adopting These ontologies to describe organizations large catalogues of items.
These ontologies need to evolve regularly in response to changes in the domain.
These ontologies need to evolve regularly in response to the emergence of new requirements.
An important step of this process is the selection of candidate concepts to include in the new version of the ontology.
This operation in particular reconcile application performance.
This operation needs to take into account a variety of factors.
This operation in particular reconcile user requirements.
This operation needs to take into account a variety of factors.
Current ontology evolution methods focus either on ranking concepts according to Current ontology evolution methods relevance or on preserving compatibility with existing applications.
However, Current ontology evolution methods do not take in consideration the impact of the ontology evolution process on the performance of computational tasks-- similarity computation.
However, Current ontology evolution methods do not take in consideration the impact of the ontology evolution process on the performance of computational tasks-- generation of recommendations.
However, Current ontology evolution methods do not take in consideration the impact of the ontology evolution process on the performance of computational tasks-- data clustering.
However, Current ontology evolution methods do not take in consideration the impact of the ontology evolution process on the performance of computational tasks-- e.g., in this work we focus on instance tagging.
In this paper, we propose the Pragmatic Ontology Evolution framework, a novel approach for selecting from a group of candidates a set of concepts able to produce a new version of a given ontology that is consistent with the a set of user requirements -LRB- e.g., max number of concepts in the ontology -RRB-, is parametrised with respect to a number of dimensions -LRB- e.g., topological considerations -RRB-, and effectively supports relevant computational tasks.
we approach also supports users in navigating the space of possible solutions by showing how certain choices, such as limiting the number of concepts, would reflect on the application performance.
we approach also supports users in navigating the space of possible solutions by showing how certain choices, such as privileging historical ones, would reflect on the application performance.
we approach also supports users in navigating the space of possible solutions by showing how certain choices, such as limiting the number of concepts, would reflect on the application performance.
we approach also supports users in navigating the space of possible solutions by showing how certain choices, such as privileging trendy concepts, would reflect on the application performance.
An evaluation of the Pragmatic Ontology Evolution on the real-world scenario of the evolving Springer Nature taxonomy for editorial classification yielded demonstrating a significant improvement over alternative approaches.