The hyponym-hypernym relation is an essential element in the hypernym co-occurrence network.
Identifying the hypernym from a definition is an important task in natural language processing.
Identifying the hypernym from a definition is an important task in semantic analysis.
While a public dictionary such as WordNet works for common words, a public dictionary such as WordNet application in domain-specific scenarios is limited.
Existing tools for hypernym extraction either rely on specific semantic patterns.
Existing tools for hypernym extraction either focus on the word representation.
the word representation which all demonstrate certain limitations.
Here we propose a method by combining both the syntactic structure in definitions given by the word’s part of speech.
Here we propose a method by combining both the syntactic structure in definitions given by the bidirectional gated recurrent unit network as the learning kernel.
The output can be further tuned by including other features such as a word’s centrality in the hypernym co-occurrence network.
The method is tested in the corpus from Wikipedia.
Stack-Overflow whose definition is usually irregular.
Wikipedia featuring definition with high regularity.
The method is tested in the corpus from the corpus from Stack-Overflow.
The method shows enhanced performance compared with other tools in both corpora.
Taken together, our work not only also gives an example of utilizing syntactic structures to learn semantic relationships ( data available at github.comRes-TanHypernym-Extraction ).
Taken together, our work not only provides a useful tool for hypernym extraction.
Taken together, our work not only also gives an example of utilizing syntactic structures to learn semantic relationships ( Source code available at https ).
Taken together, our work not only also gives an example of utilizing syntactic structures to learn semantic relationships ( data available at https ).
Taken together, our work not only also gives an example of utilizing syntactic structures to learn semantic relationships ( Source code available at github.comRes-TanHypernym-Extraction ).