This paper describes the prototype implementation of a novel architecture for integrated concept, metadata and content based browsing of museum information.
This paper describes the design implementation of a novel architecture for integrated concept, metadata and content based retrieval of museum information.
This paper describes the prototype implementation of a novel architecture for integrated concept, metadata and content based retrieval of museum information.
This paper describes the design implementation of a novel architecture for integrated concept, metadata and content based browsing of museum information.
a European project involving several major galleries.
the aim is to provide more versatile access to 3-D models.
The work is part of a European project.
the aim is to provide more versatile access to 2-D images.
the aim is to provide more versatile access to digital collections.
the aim is to provide more versatile access to other multimedia representations.
An ontology for the museum domain, based on the CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model, is being developed as a semantic layer with references to the digital collection as instance information.
A graphical concept browser is an integral component in the user interface, allowing navigation through the semantic layer, display of thumbnails, or full representations of artefacts or combined querying.
conventional content based searching.
A graphical concept browser is an integral component in the user interface, allowing navigation through the semantic layer, display of thumbnails, or the invocation of conventional content or combined querying.
A graphical concept browser is an integral component in the user interface, allowing navigation through the semantic layer, display of thumbnails, or textual information in appropriate viewers or combined querying.
Semantic Web technologies are used in system integration to describe how tools for visualisation can be applied to sources.
Semantic Web technologies are used in system integration to describe how tools for analysis can be applied to sources.
Semantic Web technologies are used in system integration to describe how tools for visualisation can be applied to different data types.
Semantic Web technologies are used in system integration to describe how tools for analysis can be applied to different data types.
This managed interpretation of the results of distributed multimedia queries.
This managed execution of the results of distributed multimedia queries.
This supports flexible.
This managed formulation of the results of distributed multimedia queries.
Combined searches using content.
Combined searches using metadata.
Combined searches can be initiated from a single user interface.
Combined searches using concepts.