Functional near-infrared spectroscopy studies provide direct evidence of the important role of the prefrontal cortex during walking in aging and Parkinson disease . Most studies explored mean hemoglobin levels, while moment-to-moment variability measures have rarely been investigated . Variability measures can inform on flexibility, which is imperative for adaptive function . We hypothesized that patients with Parkinson disease will show less variability in hemoglobin signals during walking compared to healthy controls .

Two hundred six participants, 57 healthy controls and 149 patients with idiopathic Parkinson disease, performed usual walking and dual-task walking with an Functional near-infrared spectroscopy sensor placed on the forehead . hemoglobin variability was calculated from the SD, range, and mean detrended time series of Functional near-infrared spectroscopy-derived hemoglobin signal evaluated during each walking task . hemoglobin variability was compared between groups and between walking tasks with mixed model analyses .

Higher variability was observed during dual-task walking compared to usual walking, but this was derived from the differences within the healthy control group. On the other hand, task repetition demonstrated reduced variability in healthy controls but increased variability in patients with Parkinson disease . The Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor score correlated with hemoglobin range and hemoglobin standard deviation during usual walking among all participants .

In this study, we suggest a new way to interpret changes in hemoglobin variability . We relate increased hemoglobin variability to flexible adaptation to environmental challenges and decreased hemoglobin variability to the stability of performance . Our results show that both are limited in Parkinson disease . however, further investigation of these concepts is required . Moreover, hemoglobin variability measures are an important aspect of brain function that add new insights into the role of prefrontal cortex during walking with aging and Parkinson disease .

