We present the first large scale investigation into the modular structure of a substantial collection of state-of-the-art biomedical ontologies, namely those maintained in the NCBO BioPortal repository.
Using the notion of Atomic Decomposition, we partition BioPortal ontologies into logically coherent subsets.
logically coherent subsets which are related to each other by a notion of dependency.
We analyze various aspects of the resulting structures.
We discuss the resulting structures implications on applications of ontologies.
In particular, We investigate the usage of these ontology decompositions to extract modules, for instance, to facilitate matchmaking of semantic Web services in Simple Semantic Web Architecture ).
In particular, We investigate the usage of these ontology decompositions to extract modules, for instance, to facilitate matchmaking of semantic Web services in Simple Semantic Web Protocol ).
In particular, We describe the usage of these ontology decompositions to extract modules, for instance, to facilitate matchmaking of semantic Web services in Simple Semantic Web Architecture ).
In particular, We investigate the usage of these ontology decompositions to extract modules, for instance, to facilitate matchmaking of semantic Web services in SSWAP ).
In particular, We describe the usage of these ontology decompositions to extract modules, for instance, to facilitate matchmaking of semantic Web services in Simple Semantic Web Protocol ).
In particular, We describe the usage of these ontology decompositions to extract modules, for instance, to facilitate matchmaking of semantic Web services in SSWAP ).
Descriptions of those services use terms from BioPortal so service discovery requires reasoning with respect to relevant fragments of ontologies ).
Descriptions of those services use terms from BioPortal so service discovery requires reasoning with respect to relevant fragments of i.e., modules ).
BioPortal ontologies which is able to quickly identify logically coherent subsets.
We present a novel algorithm for extracting modules from decomposed BioPortal ontologies to ensure logically complete reasoning.
coherent subsets that need to be included in a module.
Compared to existing module extraction algorithms, BioPortal ontologies has a number.
Compared to existing module extraction algorithms, BioPortal ontologies has improved performance.
Compared to existing module extraction algorithms, BioPortal ontologies has the possibility to avoid loading the entire ontology into memory.
coherent subsets that need to be included in a module.
BioPortal ontologies which is able to quickly identify logically coherent subsets.
the results are discussed.
the results are presented.
a novel algorithm is also evaluated on BioPortal ontologies.