Accurate delineation of the seizure-onset zone in focal drug-resistant epilepsy often requires stereo-EEG recordings . Our aims were to propose a truly objective and quantitative comparison between EEG versus magnetoencephalography source imaging, EEG versus fMRI responses for similar spikes with primary irritative zone and seizure-onset zone defined by stereo-EEG and to evaluate the value of magnetoencephalography source imaging and EEG versus fMRI to predict postsurgical outcome.

We identified patients with drug-resistant epilepsy who underwent EEG versus magnetoencephalography, EEG versus fMRI, and subsequent stereo-EEG at the Epilepsy Service from the Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital . We quantified multimodal concordance within the stereo-EEG channel space as spatial overlap with primary irritative zone versus seizure-onset zone and distances to the spike-onset, spike maximum amplitude and seizure core intracerebral channels by applying a new methodology consisting of converting magnetoencephalography source imaging results into stereo-EEG electrical potentials and projecting the most significant fMRI response on the stereo-EEG channels . Spatial overlaps with primary irritative zone versus seizure-onset zone were assessed by using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve .

Good magnetoencephalography source imaginge–stereo-EEG spatial overlap with the primary irritative zone was associated with smaller distance from the maximum magnetoencephalography source imaginge–stereo-EEG contact to the spike maximum amplitude channel . Conversely, good fMRIp–stereo-EEG spatial overlap with the seizure-onset zone was associated with smaller distances from the maximum fMRIp–stereo-EEG contact to the spike-onset and seizure core channels .

With the use of a unique quantitative approach estimating magnetoencephalography source imaging and fMRI results in the reference stereo-EEG channel space, EEG versus magnetoencephalography and EEG versus fMRI accurately localized the seizure-onset zone and the primary irritative zone . Precisely, EEG versus magnetoencephalography more accurately localized the primary irritative zone, whereas EEG versus fMRI was more sensitive to the seizure-onset zone . Both neuroimaging techniques provide complementary localization that can help guide stereo-EEG implantation and select good candidates for surgery .

