A significant overlap between amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia has been observed at clinical, genetic, and pathologic levels . Within this continuum of presentations, the presence of mild cognitive or behavioral symptoms in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis has been consistently reported, although it is unclear whether this is to be considered a distinct phenotype or rather a natural evolution of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . Here, we used mathematical modeling of MRI connectomic data to decipher common and divergent neural correlates across the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis–frontotemporal dementia spectrum.

We included 83 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 35 patients with behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia, and 61 healthy controls, who underwent clinical, cognitive, and MRI assessments . Patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis were classified according to the revised Strong criteria into 54 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with only motor deficits, 21 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with cognitive or behavioral involvement, and 8 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia . First, we assessed the functional and structural connectivity patterns across the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-sclerosis–frontotemporal dementia spectrum . Second, we investigated whether and where MRI connectivity alterations of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with any degree of cognitive impairment resembled more the pattern of damage of one or the other end of the spectrum, moving from group-level to single-subject analysis .

As compared with controls, extensive structural and functional disruption of the frontotemporal and parietal networks characterized behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia, while a more focal structural damage within the sensorimotor-basal ganglia areas characterized amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-cn. amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-cibi patients demonstrated an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-cn-like pattern of structural damage, diverging from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-cn with similar motor impairment for the presence of enhanced functional connectivity within sensorimotor areas and decreased functional connectivity within the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia-like pattern . On the other hand, patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-sclerosis–frontotemporal dementia resembled both structurally and functionally the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia-like pattern of damage with, in addition, the structural amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-cn-like damage in the motor areas .

Our findings suggest a maladaptive role of functional rearrangements in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-ci and bi concomitantly with similar structural alterations compared to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-cn, supporting the hypothesis that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-cibi might be considered as a phenotypic variant of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, rather than a consequence of disease worsening .

