We study the problem of structure-based entity alignment between knowledge graphs.
The recent mainstream solutions for the problem of structure-based entity alignment between knowledge graphs -RRB- apply knowledge graph embedding techniques to map entities into a vector space, where the similarity between entities could be measured accordingly.
The recent mainstream solutions for the problem of structure-based entity alignment between knowledge graphs -RRB- apply knowledge graph embedding techniques to map entities into a vector space, where the similarity between entities could be measured accordingly.
these methods which are mostly based on TransE and the problem of structure-based entity alignment between knowledge graphs -RRB- variants.
However, these methods treat relation triples in knowledge graphs independently.
these methods which are mostly based on TransE and the problem of structure-based entity alignment between knowledge graphs -RRB- variants.
As a result, these methods fail to capture some advanced interactions between entities One is the differences between the one-hop neighborhood of an entity.
these methods which are mostly based on its variants.
entities that are implicit in multi-hop entities.
As a result, these methods fail to capture some advanced interactions between entities One is the differences between the two-hop neighborhood of an entity.
entities that are far apart, which we call as long-term dependencies.
entities that are implicit in the surrounding.
these methods which are mostly based on TransE.
an entity which we call as short-term differences, while the other is the dependencies between entities.
entity alignment using self-attention mechanisms respectively.
a novel approach learning to capture both the short-term differences in knowledge graphs for entity alignment.
entity alignment using graph neural networks respectively.
a novel approach learning to capture both the long-term dependencies in knowledge graphs for entity alignment.
Based on the above observations, this paper proposes a novel approach.
Our empirical study conducted on four couples of real-world datasets.
Our empirical study shows the superiority of Our model, compared with the state-of-the-art methods.