Many previous studies, mostly performed in Western countries, on the effects of lifestyle factors on Parkinson disease used baseline lifestyle characteristics without directly accounting for changes in covariate values over time . The objective of this study was to evaluate the association of repeatedly measured lifestyle factors with Parkinson disease risk in a Korean population .

We conducted a nationwide population-based cohort study . Among 512,836 Koreans in the national health checkup database, we selected individuals who underwent health screening at least 3 times between 2002 and 2015 and followed up until December 31, 2015 . Parkinson disease was defined using the ICD-10 code G20 . Data on lifestyle factors such as smoking, alcohol consumption, and physical activity were collected using self-reported questionnaires . Logistic regression analysis with time-dependent covariates using generalized estimation equation models was performed to determine Parkinson disease development .

During the 14-year follow-up, 2,665 patients developed Parkinson disease . Smoking showed a dose–response inverse association with Parkinson disease only in men . Alcohol consumption and regular physical activity were related to reduced Parkinson disease development in both sexes. however, alcohol consumption in men and physical activity in women had more consistent associations with Parkinson disease development compared to those of the other sex . Participants with regular health screening showed a consistent relationship between lifestyle factors and Parkinson disease development, whereas lifestyle factors in those without regular health screening had a decreased relationship with Parkinson disease, even smoking habit .

Analysis using repeatedly measured lifestyle factors showed an association between lifestyle factors and Parkinson disease development . Characteristics of lifestyle data including repeated measurements, timing, or regularity might influence results, and future studies with appropriate lifestyle factors could increase Parkinson disease risk prediction .

This study provides Class II evidence that smoking, alcohol use, and physical activity are associated with reduced risk of Parkinson disease in a Korean population .

