Knowledge base question are linking modules.
Knowledge base question are heavily dependent on relation extraction.
Knowledge base question answering systems.
However, the task of linking relations from text to knowledge bases faces two primary challenges; the lack of training data.
However, the task of extracting relations from text to knowledge bases faces two primary challenges; the lack of training data.
However, the task of extracting relations from text to knowledge bases faces two primary challenges; the ambiguity of natural language of training data.
However, the task of linking relations from text to knowledge bases faces two primary challenges; the ambiguity of natural language of training data.
To overcome two primary challenges; the ambiguity of natural language of training data, we present a relation.
To overcome two primary challenges; the lack of training data, we present SLING.
framework which leverages semantic parsing.
semantic parsing using distant supervision.
a relation linking framework.
To overcome two primary challenges; the lack of training data, we present a relation.
semantic parsing using Abstract Meaning Representation.
To overcome two primary challenges; the ambiguity of natural language of training data, we present SLING.
framework which leverages semantic parsing.
a relation integrates multiple approaches.
semantic parsing using distant supervision.
multiple approaches that capture complementary signals such as linguistic cues from the knowledge base.
multiple approaches that capture complementary signals such as information from the knowledge base.
semantic parsing using Abstract Meaning Representation -RRB-.
semantic parsing using Abstract Meaning Representation -RRB-.
multiple approaches that capture complementary signals such as rich semantic representation from the knowledge base.
SLING integrates multiple approaches.
a relation linking framework.
relation linking using QALD-7.
relation linking using QALD-9.
relation linking using three KBQA datasets.
The experiments on relation demonstrate that the proposed approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on all benchmarks.
relation linking using LC-QuAD 1.0.