novel applications targeting a more efficient and satisfying exploitation of the data available on the web faceted browsing of linked open data.
novel applications targeting a more efficient and satisfying exploitation of the data available on faceted browsing of linked open data.
high diversity of knowledge in The Semantic Web pose the challenging question of appropriate relevance ranking for producing rich descriptions of the available data to guide the user along most promising knowledge aspects.
high diversity of knowledge in The Semantic Web pose the challenging question of appropriate relevance ranking for producing fine-grained descriptions of the available data to guide the user along most promising knowledge aspects.
Large amounts pose the challenging question of appropriate relevance ranking for producing rich descriptions to guide the user along most promising knowledge aspects.
high diversity of knowledge in The Semantic Web pose the challenging question of appropriate relevance ranking for producing fine-grained descriptions  to guide the user along most promising knowledge aspects.
high diversity of knowledge in The Semantic Web pose the challenging question of appropriate relevance ranking for producing rich descriptions to guide the user along most promising knowledge aspects.
Large amounts pose the challenging question of appropriate relevance ranking for producing fine-grained descriptions to guide the user along most promising knowledge aspects.
Large amounts pose the challenging question of appropriate relevance ranking for producing fine-grained descriptions of the available data to guide the user along most promising knowledge aspects.
Large amounts pose the challenging question of appropriate relevance ranking for producing rich descriptions of the available data to guide the user along most promising knowledge aspects.
Existing methods for graph-based authority ranking lack support for fine-grained latent coherence between predicates.
Existing methods for graph-based authority ranking lack support for fine-grained latent coherence between resources.
In this paper, we present TripleRank .
In this paper, we present a novel approach for faceted authority ranking in the context of RDF knowledge bases.
TripleRank captures the additional latent semantics of The Semantic Web data by means of statistical methods in order to produce richer descriptions of the available data.
a novel approach for faceted authority ranking in the context of RDF knowledge bases captures the additional latent semantics of The Semantic Web data by means of statistical methods in order to produce richer descriptions of the available data.
a 3-dimensional tensor that enables the seamless representation of arbitrary semantic links.
We model The Semantic Web by a 3-dimensional tensor.
For the analysis of that model, we apply the PARAFAC decomposition.
the PARAFAC decomposition which can be seen as a multi-modal counterpart to Web authority ranking with HITS.
The result are groupings of resources.
The result predicates that characterize groupings of resources authority to identified topics.
The result predicates that navigational properties with respect to identified topics.
The result predicates that hub properties with respect to identified topics.
We gathered encouraging feedback in a user evaluation where TripleRank results have been exploited in a faceted browsing scenario.
We have applied TripleRank to multiple data sets from the linked open data community.