With the success of Open Data a huge amount of tabular data sources became available that could potentially be mapped into the Web of ( Linked ) Data.
With the success of Open Data a huge amount of tabular data sources became available that could potentially be linked into the Web of ( Linked ) Data.
Most existing approaches to “ semantically label ” such tabular data rely on mappings of textual information to instances in RDF knowledge bases in order to link–.
Most existing approaches to “ semantically label ” such tabular data rely on mappings of textual information to instances in RDF knowledge bases in order to transform– tabular data into RDF.
Most existing approaches to “ semantically label ” such tabular data rely on mappings of textual information to properties in RDF knowledge bases in order to link–.
Most.
Most existing approaches to “ semantically label ” such tabular data rely on mappings of textual information to classes in RDF knowledge bases in order to transform– tabular data into RDF.
Most existing approaches to “ semantically label ” such tabular data rely on mappings of textual information to classes in RDF knowledge bases in order to link–.
Most existing approaches to “ semantically label ” such tabular data rely on mappings of textual information to properties in RDF knowledge bases in order to transform– tabular data into RDF.
solutions that solely focus on textual “ cues ”.
However, as we will illustrate, Open Data tables typically contain a large portion of numerical columns andor non-textual headers; therefore solutions are only partially applicable for mapping such data sources.
We propose an approach to rank candidates of semantic labels for a given bag of numerical values.
We propose an approach to find candidates of context descriptions for a given bag of numerical values.
We propose an approach to find candidates of semantic labels for a given bag of numerical values.
We propose an approach to rank candidates of context descriptions for a given bag of numerical values.
numerical values over which we perform a nearest neighbour search to rank the most likely candidates.
To this end, we apply a hierarchical clustering over information.
information taken from DBpedia to build a background knowledge graph of possible “ semantic contexts ” for bags of numerical values.
fine-grained semantic labels when there is enough supporting evidence in the background knowledge graph.
Our evaluation shows that Our approach can assign fine-grained semantic labels.
the data which could potentially be used in combination with other approaches to narrow down the search space of possible labels.
In other cases, Our approach can nevertheless assign high level contexts to the data.