Disorders of consciousness, EEG background suppression, and epileptic seizures are associated with poor outcome after cardiac arrest . Our objective was to identify the distribution of diffusion MRI–measured anoxic brain injury after cardiac arrest and to define the regional correlates of disorders of consciousness, EEG background suppression, and seizures .

We analyzed patients from a single-center database of unresponsive patients who underwent diffusion MRI after cardiac arrest . We classified each patient according to recovery of consciousness before discharge, the most continuous EEG background, and the presence or absence of seizures . Anoxic brain injury was measured with the apparent diffusion coefficient signal . We identified apparent diffusion coefficient abnormalities relative to controls without cardiac arrest and used voxel lesion symptom mapping to identify regional associations with disorders of consciousness, EEG background suppression, and seizures . We then used a bootstrapped lasso regression procedure to identify robust, multivariate regional associations with each outcome variable . Last, using area under receiver operating characteristic curves, we then compared the classification ability of the strongest regional associations to that of brain-wide summary measures .

Compared to controls, patients with cardiac arrest demonstrated apparent diffusion coefficient signal reduction that was most significant in the occipital lobes . Disorders of consciousness were associated with reduced apparent diffusion coefficient most prominently in the occipital lobes but also in deep structures . Regional injury more accurately classified patients with disorders of consciousness than whole-brain injury . Background suppression mapped to a similar set of brain regions, but regional injury could no better classify patients than whole-brain measures . Seizures were less common in patients with more severe anoxic injury, particularly in those with injury to the lateral temporal white matter .

Anoxic brain injury was most prevalent in posterior cerebral regions, and this regional pattern of injury was a better predictor of disorders of consciousness than whole-brain injury measures . EEG background suppression lacked a specific regional association, but patients with injury to the temporal lobe were less likely to have seizures . Regional patterns of anoxic brain injury are relevant to the clinical and electrographic sequelae of cardiac arrest and may hold importance for prognosis .
