the World Wide Web promises to open innumerable opportunities for automation retrieval by standardizing the protocols for metadata exchange.
the World Wide Web promises to open innumerable opportunities for information retrieval by standardizing the protocols for metadata exchange.
users getting easy-to-use tools for managing easy-to-use tools information.
users getting powerful tools for managing easy-to-use tools information.
users getting powerful tools for managing powerful tools information.
However, just as the success of the World Wide Web can be attributed to the ease of ubiquity of Web browsers, we believe that the unfolding of the the World Wide Web vision depends on users.
However, just as the success of the World Wide Web can be attributed to the ease of use of Web browsers, we believe that the unfolding of the the World Wide Web vision depends on users.
users getting easy-to-use tools for managing powerful tools information.
HTML which can be easily edited in any text editor.
But unlike HTML RDF does not have an obvious presentation mechanism.
But unlike HTML RDF is more complicated to author.
Previous work has concentrated on the ideas of generic RDF graph visualization.
Previous work has RDF Schema-based form generation.
In this paper, we present a comprehensive platform for constructing end user applications visualize arbitrary RDF-encoded information adding another layer to the abstraction cake.
end user applications that create.
In this paper, we present a comprehensive platform for constructing end user applications manipulate adding another layer to the abstraction cake.
top that allow the developer to quickly assemble applications.
applications that are based on RDF data models.
We discuss a programming environment specifically designed for manipulating RDF.
We discuss a programming environment introduce user interface concepts on top.
Also, because program logic are user interface specifications applications enjoy properties such as network updatability, extensibility, and end user customizability– all desirable characteristics in the spirit of the World Wide Web.
Also, because program logic describable in RDF applications enjoy properties such as network updatability, extensibility, and end user customizability– all desirable characteristics in the spirit of the World Wide Web.
applications built upon our framework.
Also, because user interface specifications are user interface specifications applications enjoy properties such as network updatability, extensibility, and end user customizability– all desirable characteristics in the spirit of the World Wide Web.