Much of browsing activity is today centered around entities.
Much of Web search is today centered around entities.
For this reason, Search Engine Result Pages increasingly contain information about the searched entities such as short summaries.
For this reason, Search Engine Result Pages increasingly contain information about the searched entities such as related entities.
For this reason, Search Engine Result Pages increasingly contain information about the searched entities such as factual information.
For this reason, Search Engine Result Pages increasingly contain information about the searched entities such as pictures.
A key facet is instrumental for many applications is the entity type.
A key facet that is often displayed on the Engine Result Pages and that.
more specific types which may be relevant.
However, an entity is usually not associated to a single generic type in the background knowledge bases or not given the document context.
However, an entity is usually not associated to a set of more specific types or not given the document context.
For example, one can find on the Linked Open Data cloud the fact that Tom Hanks is an actor.
For example, one can find on the Linked Open Data cloud the fact that Tom Hanks is a person.
For example, one can find on the Linked Open Data cloud the fact that Tom Hanks is a person from Concord, California.
All those types are correct.
some may be too general to be interesting ), while other may be already known to the user ).
some may be too general to be interesting ), while other may be already known to e.g., actor ).
some may be too general to be e.g., person ), while other may be interesting.
some may be too general to be interesting ), while other may be interesting.
some may be too general to be interesting ), while other may be irrelevant given e.g., person from Concord, California, Concord, California ).
some may be too general to be e.g., person ), while other may be already known to the user ).
some may be too general to be e.g., person ), while other may be irrelevant given the current browsing context ).
some may be too general to be interesting ), while other may be irrelevant given the current browsing context ).
some may be too general to be e.g., person ), while other may be irrelevant given e.g., person from Concord, California, Concord, California ).
some may be too general to be e.g., person ), while other may be already known to e.g., actor ).
In this paper, we define the new task of ranking entity types given an entity.
In this paper, we define the new task of ranking entity types given an entity context.
We propose new methods to find the most relevant entity type based on the graph structure interconnecting types.
We evaluate new methods to find the most relevant entity type based on the graph structure interconnecting types.
We propose new methods to find the most relevant entity type based on the graph structure interconnecting entities.
We evaluate new methods to find the most relevant entity type based on collection statistics interconnecting types.
We propose new methods to find the most relevant entity type based on collection statistics interconnecting types.
We evaluate new methods to find the most relevant entity type based on collection statistics interconnecting entities.
We propose new methods to find the most relevant entity type based on collection statistics interconnecting entities.
We evaluate new methods to find the most relevant entity type based on the graph structure interconnecting entities.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of different type hierarchies ( including Freebase ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of e.g., sentences, paragraphs ) ( including Freebase ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of granularity ) ( including DBPedia ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of e.g., sentences, paragraphs ) ( including schema.org ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of different type hierarchies ( including schema.org ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of e.g., sentences, paragraphs ) ( including DBPedia ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of different type hierarchies ( including DBPedia ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of granularity ) ( including schema.org ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.
An extensive experimental evaluation over several document collections at different levels of granularity ) ( including Freebase ) shows that hierarchy-based approaches provide more accurate results when picking entity types to be displayed to the end-user while still being highly scalable.