proper KBs ) correspond to infinite sets of ground positive facts, with the notable property that for FOL formulas in a certain normal form entailment reduces to formula evaluation.
Levesque’s proper knowledge bases ) correspond to infinite sets of ground positive facts, with the notable property that for FOL formulas in a certain normal form entailment reduces to formula evaluation.
proper KBs ) correspond to infinite sets of ground negative facts, with the notable property that for FOL formulas in a certain normal form entailment reduces to formula evaluation.
Levesque’s proper knowledge bases ) correspond to infinite sets of ground negative facts, with the notable property that for FOL formulas in a certain normal form entailment reduces to formula evaluation.
a certain normal form which includes positive queries possibly extended with a controlled form of negation.
a certain normal form which includes conjunctive queries.
However proper KBs represent extensional knowledge only.
In description logic terms, proper KBs correspond to ABoxes.
In this paper, we augment proper KBs with DL-Lite TBoxes, expressing intensional knowledge ).
In this paper, we augment proper KBs with DL-Lite TBoxes, expressing the ontology of the domain ).
In this paper, we augment proper KBs with DL-Lite TBoxes, expressing i.e. of the domain ).
DL-Lite has the notable property that conjunctive query answering over TBoxes is reducible to formula evaluation over the ABox only.
DL-Lite has the notable property that conjunctive query answering over standard description logic ABoxes is reducible to formula evaluation over the ABox only.
ABoxes consisting of proper KBs.
Here, we investigate whether such a property extends to ABoxes.
Specifically, we consider extitDL-Lite _ rdfs.
Specifically, we consider two DL-Lite variants.
Specifically, we consider extitDL-Lite _ core, roughly corresponding to OWL 2 QL.
Specifically, we consider roughly corresponding to RDFS.
We show that when a extitDL-Lite _ rdfs TBox is coupled with a proper KB, a extitDL-Lite _ rdfs TBox can be compiled away, reducing query answering to evaluation on the proper KB alone.
But this reduction is no longer possible when We associate proper KBs with extitDL-Lite _ core TBoxes.
Indeed, We show that in the latter case, query answering even for conjunctive queries becomes coNP-hard in data complexity.