a paper entitled Small can be Beautiful in Knowledge Representation in order to guarantee good computational properties.
In 1984, Peter Patel-Schneider thus make knowledge-based systems usable as part of larger systems.
Knowledge Representation in which Peter Patel-Schneider advocated for limiting the expressive power of knowledge representation formalisms.
In 1984, Peter Patel-Schneider published a paper.
a paper entitled Small can be Beautiful in Knowledge Representation in order to guarantee good computational properties, Peter Patel-Schneider aim at showing that the same argument holds for the future Semantic Web: if we want to give a chance for the future Semantic Web to scale up.
a paper entitled Small can be Beautiful in Knowledge Representation in order to guarantee good computational properties, Peter Patel-Schneider aim at showing that the same argument holds for the future Semantic Web: if we want to give a chance for the future Semantic Web to be broadly used.
the ontologies serving as semantic marking up of resources.
In a paper we have to limit the expressive power of the ontologies.
Knowledge Representation in which he advocated for limiting the expressive power of knowledge representation formalisms.
In addition, due to the scale of the future Semantic Web users, it is unavoidable to have to deal with distributed heterogeneous ontologies.
In addition, due to the disparity of the future Semantic Web users, it is unavoidable to have to deal with distributed heterogeneous ontologies.
Knowledge Representation in which he advocated for limiting the expressive power of knowledge representation formalisms.
In a paper Peter Patel-Schneider will argue that a peer-to-peer infrastructure enriched with simple distributed ontologies ) is appropriate and scalable for supporting the future Semantic Web.
a paper entitled Small can be Beautiful in Knowledge Representation in order to guarantee good computational properties.
simple distributed ontologies ) reconciled through mappings.
In a paper Peter Patel-Schneider will argue that a peer-to-peer infrastructure enriched with e.g., taxonomies ) is appropriate and scalable for supporting the future Semantic Web.
e.g., taxonomies ) reconciled through mappings.