To explore clinical and safety outcomes of patients with acute ischemic stroke and active cancer after endovascular treatment .

Using data from the Multicenter Randomized Clinical Trial of Endovascular Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke in the Netherlands Registry, we compared patients with active cancer to patients without cancer . Outcomes were 90-day modified Rankin Scale score, mortality, successful reperfusion, symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, and recurrent stroke . Subgroup analyses were performed in patients with a prestroke modified Rankin Scale score of 0 or 1 and according to treatment setting . Analyses were adjusted for prognostic variables .

Of 2,583 patients who underwent endovascular treatment, 124 had active cancer . They more often had prestroke disability . The treatment setting was palliative in 25.3 percent of the patients . There was a shift toward worse functional outcome at 90 days in patients with active cancer . At 90 days, patients with active cancer were less often independent and more often dead . Successful reperfusion  and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage rates did not differ. Recurrent stroke within 90 days was more common in patients with active cancer . The sensitivity analysis of patients with a prestroke modified Rankin Scale score of 0 or 1 showed that patients with active cancer still had a worse outcome at 90 days . Patients with active cancer in a palliative treatment setting regained functional independence less often compared to patients in a curative setting, and mortality was higher .

Despite similar technical success, patients with active cancer had significantly worse outcomes after endovascular treatment for acute ischemic stroke . Moreover, they had an increased risk of recurrent stroke . Nevertheless, about a quarter of the patients regained functional independence, and the risk of other complications, most notably symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, was not increased .

This study provides Class I evidence that patients with active cancer undergoing endovascular treatment for acute ischemic stroke have worse functional outcomes at 90 days compared to those without active cancer .

