We are familiar with the idea of e-Commerce– the electronic trading between suppliers.
We are familiar with the idea of e-Commerce– the electronic trading between consumers.
In recent years there has been a commensurate paradigm shift in the way that science is conducted.
science performed through distributed global collaborations between scientists.
scientists enabled by electronic means, in order to solve scientific problems.
scientists resources enabled by electronic means, in order to solve scientific problems.
e-Science is science.
science performed through distributed global collaborations between scientists resources.
No one scientific laboratory has the resources or tools, derived understanding available to a scientific community.
No one scientific laboratory has the resources or tools, derived the expertise to harness the knowledge available to a scientific community.
No one scientific laboratory has the resources or tools, the raw data.
Real progress depends on pooling know-how.
Real progress depends on pooling results.
It depends on collaboration connections between data.
It depends on collaboration connections between people.
It depends on collaboration connections between ideas.
It depends on making connections between people.
It depends on making connections between ideas.
It depends on making connections between data.
interpreting results and knowledge and who do not know you, to be analysed in ways scientific colleagues you do not know did not anticipate, to generate new hypotheses to be pooled in scientific colleagues you do not know turn.
knowledge generated by scientific colleagues you do not know.
It depends on finding.
The importance of e-Science has been highlighted in the UK, for example, by an investment of over £ 240 million pounds over the past five years to specifically address the development issues.
the development issues that have to be tacked to develop a sustainable e-Science e-Infrastructure.
the development issues that have to be tacked to develop a effective e-Science e-Infrastructure.
the research issues that have to be tacked to develop a effective e-Science e-Infrastructure.
the research issues that have to be tacked to develop a sustainable e-Science e-Infrastructure.
The importance of e-Science has been highlighted in the UK, for example, by an investment of over £ 240 million pounds over the past five years to specifically address the research issues.