Increasingly user-generated content is being utilised as a source of information, however each individual piece of content tends to contain low levels of information.
In addition, such information tends to be informal in nature; containing imprecise, subjective, ambiguous expressions.
In addition, such information tends to be imperfect in nature; containing imprecise, subjective, ambiguous expressions.
However Increasingly user-generated content does not have to be interpreted in isolation as Increasingly user-generated content is linked, either explicitly to a network of interrelated content.
Increasingly user-generated content may be tagged with similar content.
comments may be added by other users.
Increasingly user-generated content may be related to other content posted at the same time or by the same author social network.
Increasingly user-generated content may be related to other content posted at the same time or by members of the same author social network.
Increasingly user-generated content may be grouped with similar content.
However Increasingly user-generated content does not have to be interpreted in isolation as Increasingly user-generated content is linked, either implicitly to a network of interrelated content.
Increasingly user-generated content generally examines how ambiguous concepts within user-generated content can be assigned a specificformal meaning by considering the expanding context of the information, i.e. other information specifically considers the issue of toponym resolution of locations.
Increasingly user-generated content generally examines how ambiguous concepts within user-generated content can be assigned a specificformal meaning by considering the expanding context of the information, i.e. other information contained within directly related content.
Increasingly user-generated content generally examines how ambiguous concepts within user-generated content can be assigned a specificformal meaning by considering the expanding context of the information, i.e. other information contained within indirectly related content.