Genetic white matter disorders are of heterogeneous origin, with over 100 causal genes identified to date . Classic targeted approaches achieve a molecular diagnosis in only half of all patients . We aimed to determine the clinical utility of singleton whole-exome sequencing and whole-genome sequencing interpreted with a phenotype-driven and interactome-driven prioritization algorithm to diagnose Genetic white matter disorders while identifying novel phenotypes and candidate genes .

A case series of patients of all ages with undiagnosed Genetic white matter disorders despite extensive standard-of-care paraclinical studies were recruited between April 2017 and December 2019 in a collaborative study at the Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute and neurology units of tertiary Spanish hospitals . We ran sWES and WGS and applied our interactome-prioritization algorithm based on the network expansion of a seed group of Genetic white matter disorders-related genes derived from the Human Phenotype Ontology terms of each patient .

We evaluated 126 patients with ages ranging from 1 month to 74 years . We obtained a first molecular diagnosis by singleton whole-exome sequencing in 59 percent of cases, which increased to 68 percent after annual reanalysis, and reached 72 percent after WGS was performed in 16 of the remaining negative cases . We identified variants in 57 different genes among 91 diagnosed cases, with the most frequent being RNASEH2B, EIF2B5, POLR3A, and PLP1, and a dual diagnosis underlying complex phenotypes in 6 families, underscoring the importance of genomic analysis to solve these cases . We discovered 9 candidate genes causing novel diseases and propose additional putative novel candidate genes for yet-to-be discovered Genetic white matter disorders .

Our strategy enables a high diagnostic yield and is a good alternative to trio whole-exome sequencing and whole-genome sequencing for Genetic white matter disorders . It shortens the time to diagnosis compared to the classical targeted approach, thus optimizing appropriate management . Furthermore, the interactome-driven prioritization pipeline enables the discovery of novel disease-causing genes and phenotypes, and predicts novel putative candidate genes, shedding light on etiopathogenic mechanisms that are pivotal for myelin generation and maintenance .

