Most primary progressive aphasia literature is based on English language users . Linguistic features that vary from English, such as logographic writing systems, are underinvestigated . The current study characterized the dysgraphia phenotypes of patients with primary progressive aphasia who write in Chinese and investigated their diagnostic utility in classifying primary progressive aphasia variants .

This study recruited 40 participants with primary progressive aphasia and 20 cognitively normal participants from San Francisco, Hong Kong, and Taiwan . We measured dictation accuracy using the Chinese Language Assessment for primary progressive aphasia 60-character orthographic dictation test and examined the occurrence of various writing errors across the study groups . We also performed voxel-based morphometry analysis to identify the gray matter regions correlated with dictation accuracy and prevalence of writing errors .

Individuals with semantic variant primary progressive aphasia frequently presented with phonologically plausible errors at lexical level, patients with logopenic variant primary progressive aphasia showed higher preponderance towards visual and stroke errors, and patients with nonfluent and agrammatic variant primary progressive aphasia commonly exhibited compound word and radical errors . The prevalence of phonologically plausible, visual, and compound word errors was negatively correlated with cortical volume over the bilateral temporal regions, left temporo-occipital area, and bilateral orbitofrontal gyri, respectively .

The findings demonstrate the potential role of the orthographic dictation task as a screening tool and primary progressive aphasia classification indicator in Chinese language users . Each primary progressive aphasia variant had specific Chinese dysgraphia phenotypes that vary from those previously reported in English-speaking patients with primary progressive aphasia, highlighting the importance of language diversity in primary progressive aphasia .
