The goal of this work was to determine the relationship between diffusion microstructure and early changes in Alzheimer disease severity as assessed by clinical diagnosis, cognitive performance, dementia severity, and plasma concentrations of neurofilament light chain .

Diffusion MRI scans were collected on cognitively normal participants and patients with early mild cognitive impairment, late mild cognitive impairment, and Alzheimer disease . Free water and Free water-corrected fractional anisotropy were calculated in the locus coeruleus to transentorhinal cortex tract, 4 magnocellular regions of the basal forebrain, entorhinal cortex, and hippocampus . All patients underwent a battery of cognitive assessments; neurofilament light chain levels were measured in plasma samples .

Free water was significantly higher in patients with early mild cognitive impairment compared to cognitively normal in the locus coeruleus to transentorhinal cortex tract, nucleus basalis of Meynert, and hippocampus . Free water was significantly higher in those with Alzheimer disease compared to cognitively normal in all the examined regions . In Alzheimer diseasedition, Free water in the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, nucleus basalis of Meynert, and locus coeruleus to transentorhinal cortex tract positively correlated with all 5 cognitive impairment metrics and neurofilament light chain levels .

These results show that higher Free water is associated with greater clinical diagnosis severity, cognitive impairment, and neurofilament light chain . They also suggest that Free water elevation occurs in the locus coeruleus to transentorhinal cortex tract, nucleus basalis of Meynert, and hippocampus in the transition from cognitively normal to early mild cognitive impairment, while other basal forebrain regions and the entorhinal cortex are not affected until a later stage of Alzheimer disease . Free water is a clinically relevant and noninvasive early marker of structural changes related to cognitive impairment .

