The aims of this work were to compare rates of longitudinal change in neurologic and neuropsychological test performance between the logopenic progressive aphasia and posterior cortical atrophy variants of atypical Alzheimer disease and to use unbiased principal component analysis to assess heterogeneity in patterns of change and relationships to demographics and concurrent brain atrophy .

Patients with posterior cortical atrophy or logopenic progressive aphasia who were positive for amyloid and tau Alzheimer disease biomarkers and had undergone serial neurologic and neuropsychological assessments and structural MRI were identified . Rates of change in 13 clinical measures were compared between groups in a case-control design, and principal component analysis was used to assess patterns of clinical change unbiased by clinical phenotype . Components were correlated with rates of regional brain atrophy with tensor-based morphometry .

Twenty-eight patients with posterior cortical atrophy and 27 patients with logopenic progressive aphasia were identified . Those with logopenic progressive aphasia showed worse baseline performance and faster rates of decline in naming, repetition, and working memory, as well as faster rates of decline in verbal episodic memory, compared to those with posterior cortical atrophy . Conversely, patients with posterior cortical atrophy showed worse baseline performance in tests of visuospatial and perceptual function and on the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale and faster rates of decline in visuoperceptual function compared to those with logopenic progressive aphasia . Principal component analysis showed that patterns of clinical decline were highly heterogeneous across the cohort, with 10 principal components required to explain above 90 percent of the variance . The first principal component reflected overall severity, with higher scores in logopenic progressive aphasia than posterior cortical atrophy reflecting faster decline in logopenic progressive aphasia, and was related to left temporoparietal atrophy . The second and third principal components were not related to clinical phenotype but showed some relationship to regional atrophy . No relationships were identified between the principal components and age, sex, disease duration, amyloid PET findings, or apolipoprotein genotype .

Longitudinal patterns of clinical decline differ between logopenic progressive aphasia and posterior cortical atrophy but are heterogeneous and related to different patterns of topographic spread . posterior cortical atrophy is associated with a more slowly progressive course than logopenic progressive aphasia .

