There is growing interest in health-related quality of life as a comprehensive view of the patients well-being, guiding concept for the treating clinician, and therapeutic trial outcome measure for patients with Parkinson disease . The key determinants of health-related quality of life have not been investigated in large populations of patients with Parkinson disease . Our objective was to evaluate correlates of health-related quality of life in a large, online cohort of patients with Parkinson disease .

As part of an ongoing online cohort study, we performed a cross-sectional analysis at enrollment of 23,058 patients with Parkinson disease . We conducted univariate and stepwise multivariate linear regression analyses of health-related quality of life as measured by the EQ-5D-5L tool . In addition, we performed an interaction analysis to evaluate heterogeneity of the effect of motor symptoms on health-related quality of life and Spearman correlation analysis to evaluate the association of nonmotor symptoms with health-related quality of life .

In the multivariate linear regression model, participants with moderate or severe depression, more severe motor symptoms, and a higher burden of medical comorbidities had the most substantially decreased health-related quality of life as measured by the EQ index . An interaction analysis showed that more severe motor symptoms had a higher effect on individuals with female sex, lower educational level, lower income, more severe depression, or more severe cognitive impairment . Neuropsychiatric symptoms and falls had the most negative associations with health-related quality of life .

Potentially treatable motor and nonmotor symptoms, particularly neuropsychiatric symptoms, account for a large amount of the variation in health-related quality of life in patients with Parkinson disease . Motor symptoms may have differential effects on health-related quality of life in different demographic and clinical subpopulations, highlighting important areas for future health disparities research . Our findings provide targets for clinician intervention and future research on symptom management to optimize health-related quality of life in Parkinson disease .
