Extracting semantic relations is of great importance for the creation of the Semantic Web content.
It is of great benefit to semi-automatically extract relations from the free text of Wikipedia.
the free text of Wikipedia using the structured content readily available in It.
Pattern matching methods that employ information redundancy.
Pattern matching methods can not work well since there is not much redundancy information in Wikipedia, compared to Semantic Web.
Multi-class classification methods are not reasonable since no classification of relation types is available in Wikipedia.
In this paper, we propose PORE ), for relation extraction from Wikipedia text.
In this paper, we propose Positive-Only Relation Extraction ), for relation extraction from Wikipedia text.
a state-of-the-art positive-only learning algorithm using strong negative identifi cation to work with fewer positive training exam ples.
The core algorithm B-POL extends a state-of-the-art positive-only learning algorithm.
a state-of-the-art positive-only learning algorithm using bootstrapping to work with fewer positive training exam ples.
a state-of-the-art positive-only learning algorithm using transductive inference to work with fewer positive training exam ples.
We conducted experiments on several relations with different amount of training data.
The experimental results show that B-POL can work effectively given only a small amount of positive training examples the original positive learning approaches.
The experimental results show that B-POL can work effectively given The experimental results significantly out per forms a multi-class SVM.
The experimental results show that B-POL can work effectively given The experimental results significantly out per forms the original positive learning approaches.
The experimental results show that B-POL can work effectively given only a small amount of positive training examples a multi-class SVM.
Furthermore, although PORE is applied in the context of Wiki pedia, The core algorithm B-POL can be adapted to other domains.
Furthermore, although PORE is applied in the context of Wiki pedia, The core algorithm B-POL is a general approach for Ontology Population.