Ontology alignment is an important problem for the linked data web, as more ontologies get published for specific domains such as government.
Ontology alignment is an important problem for the linked data web, as ontology instances get published for specific domains such as government.
Ontology alignment is an important problem for the linked data web, as ontology instances get published for specific domains such as healthcare.
Ontology alignment is an important problem for the linked data web, as more ontologies get published for specific domains such as healthcare.
Ontology alignment is an important problem for the linked data web, as more ontologies get published for specific domains such as healthcare.
Ontology alignment is an important problem for the linked data web, as more ontologies get published for specific domains such as government.
A number of ( semi- ) automated alignment systems have been proposed in recent years.
Most combine a set of similarity functions on structural features to align ontologies.
Most combine a set of similarity functions on semantic features to align ontologies.
Most combine a set of similarity functions on lexical features to align ontologies.
Although similarity functions on semantic features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on structural features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on structural features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on structural features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on structural features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on structural features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on lexical features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on semantic features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on lexical features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on structural features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on semantic features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on structural features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on semantic features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on semantic features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on semantic features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on lexical features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on lexical features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on lexical features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on semantic features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on lexical features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on structural features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on semantic features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on lexical features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on semantic features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on semantic features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on semantic features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on structural features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on semantic features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on structural features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on lexical features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on lexical features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on structural features fail to capture alignments when terms varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on lexical features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on lexical features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
Although similarity functions on structural features work well in many cases of ontology alignments, similarity functions on lexical features fail to capture alignments when structure varies vastly across ontologies.
In this case, one is forced to rely on manual alignment.
expert provided ontology alignments for new alignment tasks.
In this paper, we study whether it is feasible to re-use such expert.
we focus in particular on many-to-one alignments, where the opportunity for re-use is feasible if alignments are stable.
the source ontology S that are mapped to the same entity in the target ontology T.
Specifically, we define the notion of a cluster as being made of multiple entities in the source ontology S.
we test the stability hypothesis that the formed clusters of source ontology are stable across alignments to different target ontologies.
If the stability hypothesis is valid, the clusters of an ontology S, built from an existing alignment with an ontology T, can be effectively exploited to align S with a new ontology T '.
Evaluation on both manual show remarkable stability of clusters across ontology alignments in the financial domain.
Evaluation on both manual show remarkable stability of clusters across ontology alignments in life sciences domain.
Evaluation on automated high-quality alignments show remarkable stability of clusters across ontology alignments in life sciences domain.
Evaluation on automated high-quality alignments show remarkable stability of clusters across ontology alignments in the financial domain.
Evaluation on automated high-quality alignments show remarkable stability of clusters across ontology alignments in the healthcare.
Evaluation on both manual show remarkable stability of clusters across ontology alignments in the healthcare.
Experimental evaluation also demonstrates the effectiveness of utilizing the stability of clusters in improving the alignment process in terms of precision.
Experimental evaluation also demonstrates the effectiveness of utilizing the stability of clusters in improving the alignment process in terms of recall.