Mild cognitive impairment in isolated REM sleep behavior disorder is a risk factor for subsequent neurodegeneration . We aimed to identify brain metabolism and functional connectivity changes related to Mild cognitive impairment in patients with isolated REM sleep behavior disorder and predictive value for phenoconversion of the neuroimaging markers .

This is a prospective cohort study of patients with isolated REM sleep behavior disorder . At baseline, patients with isolated REM sleep behavior disorder and age-matched and sex-matched healthy controls underwent 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose–PET and resting-state fMRI scans and a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery . Voxel-wise group comparisons for 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-PET data were performed using a general linear model . Seed-based connectivity maps were computed using brain regions showing significant hypometabolism associated with Mild cognitive impairment in patients with isolated REM sleep behavior disorder and compared between groups . A Cox regression analysis was applied to investigate the association between brain metabolism and risk of phenoconversion .

The isolated REM sleep behavior disorder-Mild cognitive impairment group revealed relative hypometabolism in the inferior parietal lobule, lateral and medial occipital, and middle and inferior temporal cortex bilaterally compared with healthy control and the isolated REM sleep behavior disorder-Normal cognition group . In seed-based connectivity analyses, the isolated REM sleep behavior disorder-mild cognitive impairment group exhibited decreased functional connectivity of the left angular gyrus with the occipital cortex . Of 40 patients with isolated REM sleep behavior disorder, 12 patients converted to Parkinson disease or dementia with Lewy bodies . Hypometabolism of the occipital pole, medial occipital, and precuneus was associated with higher phenoconversion rate to Parkinson disease or dementia with Lewy bodies .

Mild cognitive impairment in isolated REM sleep behavior disorder is related to functional and metabolic changes in broad brain areas, particularly the occipital and parietal areas . Moreover, hypometabolism in these brain regions was a predictor of phenoconversion to Parkinson disease or dementia with Lewy bodies . Evaluation of cognitive function and neuroimaging characteristics could be useful for risk stratification in patients with isolated REM sleep behavior disorder .

