In recent years, CNL ) has received much attention with regard to ontology-based knowledge acquisition systems.
In recent years, Controlled Natural Language ) has received much attention with regard to ontology-based knowledge acquisition systems.
CNLs, as subsets of natural languages, can be useful for both humans and computers by eliminating ambiguity of natural languages.
Resource Description Framework ) triples using a domain-specific ontology as natural language-like narratives -LRB- Resource Description Framework -RRB- triples language constituents.
Our previous work, OntoPath, proposed to edit natural language-like narratives.
natural language-like narratives that are structured in RDF ) triples.
natural language-like narratives that are structured in RDF.
natural language-like narratives that are structured in Resource Description Framework ) triples.
RDF ) triples using a domain-specific ontology as natural language-like narratives -LRB- Resource Description Framework -RRB- triples language constituents.
other systems employing CFG for grammar definition.
However, other systems have difficulties in enlarging the expression capacity.
However, Our previous work have difficulties in enlarging the expression capacity.
A newly developed editor permits grammar definitions through Context-Free Grammar with Lexical Dependency ).
Context-Free Grammar with Lexical Dependency ) that includes semantic structures of the grammars.
A newly developed editor which Our propose in this paper.
CFG-LD ) that includes semantic structures of the grammars.
Context-Free Grammar with Lexical Dependency ) that includes sequential structures of the grammars.
CFG-LD ) that includes sequential structures of the grammars.
A newly developed editor permits grammar definitions through CFG-LD ).
CFG describing the sequential structure of grammar.
With CFG lexical dependencies between sentence elements can be designated in the definition system.
Through the defined grammars, translates the content into RDF triples.
Through the defined grammars, the implemented editor guides users’ narratives in more familiar expressions with a domain-specific ontology.