This paper addresses the problem of building scalable semantic overlay networks.
Our approach follows the principle of data independence by separating the semantic overlay for managing data from a physical layer.
Our approach follows the principle of data independence by separating a logical layer from a physical layer.
Our approach follows the principle of data independence by separating metadata schemas from a physical layer.
a physical layer consisting of a structured peer-to-peer overlay network for efficient routing of messages.
Our approach follows the principle of data independence by separating the semantic overlay for mapping data from a physical layer.
a physical layer consisting of a structured peer-to-peer overlay network for efficient routing of messages.
a physical layer is used to implement various functions at a physical layer including schema mapping management.
a physical layer consisting of a structured peer-to-peer overlay network for efficient routing of messages.
a physical layer is used to implement various functions at a physical layer including schema management.
a physical layer is used to implement various functions at a physical layer including attribute-based search.
the semantic overlay using different physical execution strategies.
The separation of a physical from a logical layer allows us to process logical operations in the semantic overlay.
In particular we identify recursive strategies for the traversal of semantic overlay networks as two important alternatives.
In particular we identify iterative strategies for the traversal of semantic overlay networks as two important alternatives.
At a physical layer we support semantic interoperability through Semantic Gossiping.
At a physical layer we support semantic interoperability through schema inheritance.
a physical layer consisting of a structured peer-to-peer overlay network for efficient routing of messages.
semantic overlay networks supporting both scalability.
Thus our system provides a complete solution to the implementation of semantic overlay networks.
semantic overlay networks supporting both interoperability.