The standardization of the second generation Web Ontology Language , leaves reason with multiple linked, ontologies.
The standardization of OWL, leaves reason with multiple distinct.
The standardization of the second generation Web Ontology Language , leaves a crucial issue for Web-based ontologies unsatisfactorily resolved: how to represent.
The standardization of the second generation Web Ontology Language , leaves reason with multiple distinct.
The standardization of OWL, leaves reason with multiple linked, ontologies.
The standardization of OWL, leaves a crucial issue for Web-based ontologies unsatisfactorily resolved: how to represent.
OWL provides the owl: imports construct which, roughly, allows Web ontologies to include other Web ontologies, but only by merging all the linked ontologies into a single logical “ space. ”.
Recent work on fusions distributed have tried to find These formalisms wherein knowledge bases ) are kept more distinct.
Recent work on multidimensional logics distributed have tried to affect each other.
Recent work on multidimensional logics distributed have tried to find These formalisms wherein knowledge bases ) are kept more distinct.
Recent work on fusions distributed have tried to affect each other.
Recent work on fusions distributed have tried to find These formalisms wherein and the like logic ) are kept more distinct.
contextual logics have tried to find These formalisms wherein and the like logic ) are kept more distinct.
Recent work on multidimensional logics distributed have tried to find These formalisms wherein and the like logic ) are kept more distinct.
Recent work on other combinations of modal logics distributed have tried to affect each other.
the like have tried to affect each other.
the like have tried to find These formalisms wherein and the like logic ) are kept more distinct.
Recent work on other combinations of modal logics distributed have tried to find These formalisms wherein and the like logic ) are kept more distinct.
Recent work on other combinations of modal logics distributed have tried to find These formalisms wherein knowledge bases ) are kept more distinct.
contextual logics have tried to affect each other.
the like have tried to find These formalisms wherein knowledge bases ) are kept more distinct.
contextual logics have tried to find These formalisms wherein knowledge bases ) are kept more distinct.
These formalisms have various degrees of robustness in These formalisms intuitiveness to modelers.
These formalisms have various degrees of robustness in These formalisms modularity, These formalisms expressivity.
These formalisms have various degrees of robustness in These formalisms computational complexity.
a novel sub-formalism that seems very straightforward to implement on existing tableau OWL reasoners, as witnessed by we implementation of this formalism in the OWL reasoner Pellet.
such formalisms grounded in E-connections as extensions to OWL, with emphasis on a novel sub-formalism.
In this paper, we explore a family of such formalisms.
we discuss how to integrate These formalisms into some of the issues that modelers have to face when using such formalisms in the context of a large number of heterogeneous, independently developed, richly interconnected ontologies that we expect to be the norm on the Semantic Web.
we discuss how to integrate These formalisms into OWL that we expect to be the norm on the Semantic Web.