Building user-friendly GUIs for filtering RDFS description bases while exploiting in a transparent way the expressiveness of declarative queryview languages is vital for various Semantic Web applications ).
Building user-friendly GUIs for browsing RDFS description bases while exploiting in a transparent way the expressiveness of declarative queryview languages is vital for e.g., e-learning, e-science ).
Building user-friendly GUIs for filtering RDFS description bases while exploiting in a transparent way the expressiveness of declarative queryview languages is vital for e.g., e-learning, e-science ).
Building user-friendly GUIs for browsing RDFS description bases while exploiting in a transparent way the expressiveness of declarative queryview languages is vital for various Semantic Web applications ).
GRQL.
a novel interface called GRQL.
In this paper we present a novel interface.
which relies on the full power of the RDFS data model for constructing on the fly queries.
the fly queries expressed in RQL.
path expressions required to access the resources of interest.
More precisely, a user can navigate graphically through the individual RDFS class.
More precisely, a user can generate transparently the RQL path expressions.
More precisely, a user can navigate graphically through property definitions.
path expressions required to access the resources of interest capture accurately the meaning of its navigation steps through the class ( or property ) subsumption andor associations.
Additionally, users can enrich the generated queries with filtering conditions on the attributes of the currently visited class while users can easily specify the resource's class ) appearing in the query result.
Additionally, users can enrich the generated queries with filtering conditions on the attributes of the currently visited class while users can easily specify the resource’s class ) appearing in the query result.
To the best of our knowledge, GRQL is the first application-independent GUI able to generate a unique RQL query.
a unique RQL query which captures the cumulative effect of an entire user navigation session.