Cancer may increase the risk of developing Guillain-Barré syndrome due to molecular mimicry or immunosuppression, but the exact relationship is unclear . We aimed to determine the association between incident cancer and the following risk of Guillain-Barré syndrome development .

We conducted a nationwide population-based case-control study of all patients with first-time hospital-diagnosed Guillain-Barré syndrome in Denmark between 1987 and 2016 and 10 age-matched, sex-matched, and index date–matched population controls per case . We identified incident cancer diagnoses between 6 months before and 2 months after the Guillain-Barré syndrome index date . We used conditional logistic regression to compute odds ratios as a measure of relative risk and performed stratified analyses to assess the impact of cancer on Guillain-Barré syndrome risk in strata of calendar periods, sex, and age . In sensitivity analyses, to assess any potential risk of survival bias induced by including cancer diagnoses potentially made after Guillain-Barré syndrome diagnosis, we examined incident cancers in both a broader exposure window and a narrower window .

Of the 2,414 patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome and 23,909 controls included, 49 cases and 138 controls had a recent cancer diagnosis, yielding a matched odd ratio of 3.6 for Guillain-Barré syndrome associated with cancer . Stratification by calendar time, sex, and age showed robust results for the association between cancer and Guillain-Barré syndrome, with no major variations . Broadening and narrowing the exposure window produced slightly weakened associations of OR of 2.4 and 2.5, respectively . The Guillain-Barré syndrome odds ratios were highest for cancers of the lymphatic and hematopoietic tissue, respiratory tract, prostate and other male genital organ, and breast cancer .

In this large nationwide epidemiologic study, incident cancer was associated with a markedly increased risk of subsequent Guillain-Barré syndrome development . The results suggest that as-yet unidentified factors present in several types of cancer drive this association .

