Between uri dereferencing lies a largely unexplored axis of possible interfaces to Linked Data own combination of trade-offs.
Between uri dereferencing lies a largely unexplored axis of possible interfaces to each with the sparql protocol own combination of trade-offs.
Between the sparql protocol lies a largely unexplored axis of possible interfaces to each with the sparql protocol own combination of trade-offs.
Between the sparql protocol lies a largely unexplored axis of possible interfaces to Linked Data own combination of trade-offs.
One of these interfaces is Triple Pattern Fragments.
Triple Pattern Fragments which allows clients to execute sparql queries against low-cost servers, at the cost of higher bandwidth.
Increasing a client’s efficiency means lowering the number of requests.
requests which can among others be achieved through additional metadata in responses.
We noted that typical sparql query evaluations against Triple Pattern Fragments require a variable pattern.
We noted that typical sparql query evaluations against Triple Pattern Fragments require a significant portion of membership subqueries.
membership subqueries which check the presence of a specific triple.
One of these interfaces studies Golomb-coded sets as extra metadata.
One of these interfaces studies Bloom filters as extra metadata.
One of these interfaces studies the impact of providing approximate membership functions as extra metadata.
In addition to reducing http requests, such functions allow to achieve full result recall earlier when temporarily allowing lower precision.
Half of the tested queries from a WatDiv benchmark test set could be executed with up to a third fewer http requests with only marginally higher server cost.
Query times, however, did not improve, likely due to slower metadata generation and transfer.
This indicates that approximate membership functions can partly improve the client-side query process with minimal impact on the server.
This indicates that approximate membership functions can partly improve the client-side query process with minimal impact on the server interface.