the ontology underlying the source dataset in the Linked Data cloud.
Building applications over Linked Data often requires the ontology.
Building applications over Linked Data often requires a mapping between the application model.
a mapping between the ontology can be defined in many ways.
a mapping between the application model can be defined in many ways.
the ontology underlying the source dataset in the Linked Data cloud.
For instance, by describing the application model as a view over the source dataset, by giving mappings in the form of dependencies between the two datasets that infer the application model from the source dataset.
For instance, by inference rules that infer the application model from the source dataset.
Explicitly formulating these mappings demands a comprehensive understanding of the underlying schemas ) of the target datasets.
Explicitly formulating these mappings demands a comprehensive understanding of the underlying schemas ) of the source datasets.
Explicitly formulating these mappings demands a comprehensive understanding of RDF ontologies ) of the target datasets.
Explicitly formulating these mappings demands a comprehensive understanding of RDF ontologies ) of the source datasets.
This task can help the application designer with finding the implicit relationships that the application designer wants to map.
This task can be supported by integrating the process of schema exploration into the mapping process.
This paper describes Fusion- a framework for closing the gap between the application model.
This paper describes Fusion- a framework for closing the underlying ontologies in the Linked Data cloud.
Fusion simplifies the definition of mappings by providing a visual user interface.
a visual user interface that integrates the mapping process.
a visual user interface that integrates the exploratory process.
the mapping process architecture allows the creation of new applications through the extension of existing Linked Data with additional data.