different sources using equivalence statements, such as other types of linked properties.
The Web of Linked Data is characterized by linking structured data from different sources.
different sources using equivalence statements, such as sameAs.
different sources using equivalence statements, such as owl.
different sources using equivalence statements, such as sameAs.
The ontologies behind different sources however, remain unlinked.
different sources using equivalence statements, such as other types of linked properties.
different sources using equivalence statements, such as owl.
This paper describes an extensional approach to generate alignments between The ontologies behind these sources.
hypotheses supported by the existing equivalence statements.
Specifically our algorithm produces equivalence relationships between classes from ontologies of different Linked Data sources by exploring the space of hypotheses.
Specifically our algorithm produces subsumption relationships between classes from ontologies of different Linked Data sources by exploring the space of hypotheses.
We are also able to generate new classes for a second source where the ontology is not as refined as the first.
We are also able to generate a complementary hierarchy of derived classes within an existing ontology where the ontology is not as refined as the first.
We demonstrate empirically We approach using Linked Data sources from zoology domains.
We demonstrate empirically We approach using Linked Data sources from genetics.
We demonstrate empirically We approach using Linked Data sources from the geospatial.
our algorithm discovered about 800 equivalences in the alignment of five source pairs from these domains.
our algorithm discovered about 29,000 subset relationships in the alignment of five source pairs from these domains.
Thus, we are able to understand the semantic relationships between the two sources.
Thus, we are able to model one Linked Data source in terms of another by aligning Linked Data ontologies.