The objectives of this study were to develop and establish concurrent validity of a clinically relevant definition of poor cognitive outcome 1 year after mild traumatic brain injury, to compare baseline characteristics across cognitive outcome groups, and to determine whether poor 1-year cognitive outcome can be predicted by routinely available baseline clinical variables .

Prospective cohort study included 656 participants older than 17 years of age presenting to level 1 trauma centers within 24 hours of mild traumatic brain injury and 156 demographically similar healthy controls enrolled in the Transforming Research and Clinical Knowledge in TBI study . Poor 1-year cognitive outcome was defined as cognitive impairment, cognitive decline, or both . Associations of poor 1-year cognitive outcome with 1-year neurobehavioral outcomes were performed to establish concurrent validity . Baseline characteristics were compared across cognitive outcome groups, and backward elimination logistic regression was used to build a prediction model .

Mean age of participants with mild traumatic brain injury was 40.2 years . Poor 1-year cognitive outcome was associated with worse 1-year functional outcome, more neurobehavioral symptoms, greater psychological distress, and lower satisfaction with life, establishing concurrent validity . At 1 year, 13.5 percent of participants with mild traumatic brain injury had a poor cognitive outcome versus 4.5 percent of controls . In univariable analyses, poor 1-year cognitive outcome was associated with non-White race, lower education, lower income, lack of health insurance, hyperglycemia, preinjury depression, and greater injury severity . The final multivariable prediction model included education, health insurance, preinjury depression, hyperglycemia, and Rotterdam CT score greater than 3 and achieved an area under the curve of 0.69 for the prediction of a poor 1-year cognitive outcome, with each variable associated with over 2-fold increased odds of poor 1-year cognitive outcome .

Poor 1-year cognitive outcome is common, affecting 13.5 percent of patients with mild traumatic brain injury versus 4.5 percent of controls . These results highlight the need for better understanding of mechanisms underlying poor cognitive outcome after mild traumatic brain injury to inform interventions to optimize cognitive recovery .
