This paper presents a decidable fragment for combining rules in order-sorted logic programming.
This paper presents a decidable fragment for combining ontologies in order-sorted logic programming.
We describe order-sorted logic programming with sort for deriving predicate assertions.
We describe order-sorted logic programming with predicate for deriving predicate assertions.
We describe order-sorted logic programming with meta-predicate hierarchies for deriving predicate assertions.
We describe order-sorted logic programming with sort for deriving meta-predicate assertions.
We describe order-sorted logic programming with meta-predicate hierarchies for deriving meta-predicate assertions.
We describe order-sorted logic programming with predicate for deriving meta-predicate assertions.
predicates of predicates ) are useful for representing relationships between predicate formulas, and further, predicates of predicates -RRB- conceptually yield a hierarchy similar to the hierarchies of predicates.
Meta-level predicates ) are useful for representing relationships between predicate formulas, and further, Meta-level predicates -RRB- conceptually yield a hierarchy similar to the hierarchies of sorts.
Meta-level predicates ) are useful for representing relationships between predicate formulas, and further, predicates of predicates -RRB- conceptually yield a hierarchy similar to the hierarchies of predicates.
predicates of predicates ) are useful for representing relationships between predicate formulas, and further, predicates of predicates -RRB- conceptually yield a hierarchy similar to the hierarchies of sorts.
Meta-level predicates ) are useful for representing relationships between predicate formulas, and further, predicates of predicates -RRB- conceptually yield a hierarchy similar to the hierarchies of sorts.
predicates of predicates ) are useful for representing relationships between predicate formulas, and further, Meta-level predicates -RRB- conceptually yield a hierarchy similar to the hierarchies of predicates.
predicates of predicates ) are useful for representing relationships between predicate formulas, and further, Meta-level predicates -RRB- conceptually yield a hierarchy similar to the hierarchies of sorts.
Meta-level predicates ) are useful for representing relationships between predicate formulas, and further, Meta-level predicates -RRB- conceptually yield a hierarchy similar to the hierarchies of predicates.
a query-answering system that can answer queries such as atoms.
atoms generalized by containing predicate variables.
meta-atoms generalized by containing predicate variables.
a query-answering system that can answer queries such as meta-atoms.
By extending the order-sorted Horn-clause calculus, we develop a query-answering system.
We show that the expressive query-answering system computes every generalized query in single exponential time query system is equal to that of DATALOG.
We show that the expressive query-answering system computes every generalized the complexity of We query system is equal to that of DATALOG.