Patients with earlier age at onset of sporAlzheimer diseaseic Alzheimer disease are more likely than those with later onset to present with atypical clinical and cognitive features . We sought to determine whether this age-related clinical and cognitive heterogeneity is mediated by different topographic distributions of tau-aggregate neurofibrillary tangles or by variable amounts of concomitant non-Alzheimer disease neuropathology .

The relative distribution of neurofibrillary tangles density in hippocampus and midfrontal neocortex was calculated, and alpha-synuclein, TAR DNA binding protein 43, and microvascular copathologies were staged, in patients with severe Alzheimer disease and age at onset of 51–60 , 61–70 , and over 70 years . Regression, mediation, and mixed effects models examined relationships of pathologic findings with clinical features and longitudinal cognitive decline .

Patients with later age at onset of Alzheimer disease were less likely to present with nonmemory complaints, psychiatric symptoms, and functional impairment. TAR DNA binding protein 43 and microvascular copathology were more common in later onset Alzheimer disease, and alpha-synuclein copathology was not related to age at onset . neurofibrillary tangles density in midfrontal cortex, midfrontal neurofibrillary, and hippocampal neurofibrillary tangles ratio were lower in those with later age at onset . Executive function and visuospatial cognitive deficits were less impaired in patients with later age at onset . Mediation analyses showed that the effect of age at onset on severity of executive function deficits was mediated by midfrontal neurofibrillary and hippocampal neurofibrillary tangles ratio and not by concomitant non-Alzheimer disease pathologies. Midfrontal neurofibrillary and hippocampal neurofibrillary tangles ratio also mediated an association between earlier age at onset and faster decline on tests of global cognition, executive function, and visuospatial abilities .

Worse executive dysfunction and faster cognitive decline in people with sporAlzheimer diseaseic Alzheimer disease with earlier rather than later age at onset is mediated by greater relative midfrontal neocortical to hippocampal neurofibrillary tangles burden and not by concomitant non-Alzheimer disease neuropathology .

