The defining features of Alzheimer disease include conspicuous changes in brain behavior.
The defining features of Alzheimer disease include conspicuous changes in brain histology.
The defining features of Alzheimer disease brain is characterized microscopically by the combined presence of 2 classes of abnormal structures, extracellular amyloid plaques and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles, both of which comprise highly insoluble, densely packed filaments.
The soluble building blocks of extracellular amyloid plaques are Amyloid-Beta peptides for plaques for tangles.
The soluble building blocks of extracellular amyloid plaques are Amyloid-Beta peptides for tau for tangles.
The soluble building blocks of abnormal structures are Amyloid-Beta peptides for tau for tangles.
The soluble building blocks of abnormal structures are Amyloid-Beta peptides for plaques for tangles.
The soluble building blocks of intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles are Amyloid-Beta peptides for plaques for tangles.
The soluble building blocks of intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles are Amyloid-Beta peptides for tau for tangles.
Amyloid-Beta peptides are proteolytic fragments of the transmembrane amyloid precursor protein, whereas tau is a brain-specific, axon-enriched microtubule-associated protein.
The behavioral symptoms Alzheimer disease correlate with the accumulation of plaques and tangles, and Amyloid-Beta peptides are a direct consequence of the damage and destruction of synapses that mediate memory and cognition.
Synapse loss can be caused by the failure of live neurons to maintain functional axons and dendrites or by neuron death.
During the past dozen years, a steadily accumulating body of evidence has indicated that soluble forms of both tau work together, independently of soluble forms of tau work together accumulation into tangles, to drive healthy neurons into the diseased state and that hallmark toxic properties of both Amyloid-Beta require tau.
During the past dozen years, a steadily accumulating body of evidence has indicated that soluble forms of both tau work together, independently of soluble forms of tau work together accumulation into plaques, to drive healthy neurons into the diseased state and that hallmark toxic properties of both Amyloid-Beta require tau.
During the past dozen years, a steadily accumulating body of evidence has indicated that soluble forms of both tau work together, independently of soluble forms of Amyloid-Beta work together accumulation into tangles, to drive healthy neurons into the diseased state and that hallmark toxic properties of both Amyloid-Beta require tau.
During the past dozen years, a steadily accumulating body of evidence has indicated that soluble forms of both tau work together, independently of soluble forms of Amyloid-Beta work together accumulation into plaques, to drive healthy neurons into the diseased state and that hallmark toxic properties of both Amyloid-Beta require tau.
During the past dozen years, a steadily accumulating body of evidence has indicated that soluble forms of both Amyloid-Beta work together, independently of soluble forms of Amyloid-Beta work together accumulation into plaques, to drive healthy neurons into the diseased state and that hallmark toxic properties of both Amyloid-Beta require tau.
During the past dozen years, a steadily accumulating body of evidence has indicated that soluble forms of both Amyloid-Beta work together, independently of soluble forms of Amyloid-Beta work together accumulation into tangles, to drive healthy neurons into the diseased state and that hallmark toxic properties of both Amyloid-Beta require tau.
During the past dozen years, a steadily accumulating body of evidence has indicated that soluble forms of both Amyloid-Beta work together, independently of soluble forms of tau work together accumulation into tangles, to drive healthy neurons into the diseased state and that hallmark toxic properties of both Amyloid-Beta require tau.
During the past dozen years, a steadily accumulating body of evidence has indicated that soluble forms of both Amyloid-Beta work together, independently of soluble forms of tau work together accumulation into plaques, to drive healthy neurons into the diseased state and that hallmark toxic properties of both Amyloid-Beta require tau.
For instance, delayed neuron death following ectopic cell cycle reentry are triggered by Amyloid-Beta species.
For instance, delayed neuron death following ectopic cell cycle reentry are triggered by soluble species.
For instance, delayed neuron death following ectopic cell cycle reentry are triggered by extracellular species.
For instance, delayed neuron death following ectopic cell cycle reentry are depend on soluble, cytoplasmic tau.
For instance, delayed neuron death following synaptic dysfunction are triggered by soluble species.
For instance, delayed neuron death following synaptic dysfunction are triggered by extracellular species.
For instance, delayed neuron death following synaptic dysfunction are triggered by Amyloid-Beta species.
For instance, delayed neuron death following synaptic dysfunction are depend on soluble, cytoplasmic tau.
Therefore, both Amyloid-Beta is upstream of tau in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis, but there is also evidence that toxic tau enhances both Amyloid-Beta toxicity via a feedback loop.
Therefore, both Amyloid-Beta triggers the conversion of tau from a normal to a toxic state, but there is also evidence that toxic tau enhances both Amyloid-Beta toxicity via a feedback loop.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would benefit from detecting soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species before plaques, tangles,.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become from interfering with the destructive biochemical pathways that soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species initiate.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become evident.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for  Alzheimer disease would become evident.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become from interfering with the destructive biochemical pathways that soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species initiate.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would benefit from detecting soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species before plaques, tangles,.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of Amyloid-Beta can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would benefit from detecting soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species before plaques, tangles,.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of Amyloid-Beta can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer Disease would become from interfering with the destructive biochemical pathways that soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species initiate.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of Amyloid-Beta can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become evident.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of Amyloid-Beta can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become evident.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of Amyloid-Beta can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become from interfering with the destructive biochemical pathways that soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species initiate.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of Amyloid-Beta can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would benefit from detecting soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species before plaques, tangles,.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both both tau can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would benefit from detecting soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species before plaques, tangles,.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both both tau can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become evident.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both both tau can self-propagate throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become from interfering with the destructive biochemical pathways that soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species initiate.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both both tau can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become from interfering with the destructive biochemical pathways that soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species initiate.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both both tau can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would become evident.
Because soluble toxic aggregates of both both tau can spread throughout the brain by prionlike mechanisms, successful therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer disease would benefit from detecting soluble, extracellular Amyloid-Beta species before plaques, tangles,.
