Triple stores are the backbone of increasingly many Data Web applications.
It is thus evident that the performance of Triple stores is mission critical for data integration on the Data Web in general.
It is thus evident that the performance of Triple stores is mission critical for individual projects on the Data Web in general.
Consequently, it is of central importance during the implementation of any of these applications to have a clear picture of the weaknesses and strengths of current triple store implementations.
In this paper, we propose a generic SPARQL benchmark creation procedure.
a generic SPARQL benchmark creation procedure which we apply to the DBpedia knowledge base.
Previous approaches often compared triple stores and, thus, settled on measuring performance against a relational database.
a relational database which had been converted to RDF by using SQL-like queries.
Previous approaches often compared relational stores and, thus, settled on measuring performance against a relational database.
In contrast to Previous approaches often compared relational stores and, thus, settled on measuring performance against a relational database we benchmark is based on queries.
queries that were actually issued by applications against existing RDF data not resembling a relational schema.
queries that were actually issued by humans against existing RDF data not resembling a relational schema.
a relational database which had been converted to RDF by using SQL-like queries.
In contrast to Previous approaches often compared triple stores and, thus, settled on measuring performance against a relational database we benchmark is based on queries.
we generic procedure for benchmark creation is based on query-log mining.
we generic procedure for benchmark creation is based on SPARQL feature analysis.
we generic procedure for benchmark creation is based on clustering.
we argue that a pure SPARQL benchmark is more useful to provide results for the popular triple store implementations Virtuoso, Sesame, Jena-TDB,.
we argue that a pure SPARQL benchmark is more useful to compare existing triple stores.
we argue that a pure SPARQL benchmark is more useful to provide results for the popular triple store implementations BigOWLIM.
The subsequent comparison of our results with other benchmark results indicates that the performance of triple stores is by far less homogeneous than suggested by previous benchmarks.