The paper determines the algebraic structure of the multiset semantics of the core patterns of SPARQL.
The paper determines the logic structure of the multiset semantics of the core patterns of SPARQL.
We prove that the fragment UNION, OPTIONAL corresponds precisely to both, the intuitive multiset relational algebra ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, OPTIONAL corresponds precisely to both, projection, selection, natural join, arithmetic union ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, MINUS corresponds precisely to both, the multiset non-recursive Datalog with safe negation.
We prove that the fragment UNION, FILTER corresponds precisely to both, the intuitive multiset relational algebra ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, OPTIONAL corresponds precisely to both, projection, selection, natural join, except ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, FILTER corresponds precisely to both, projection, selection, natural join, except ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, SELECT corresponds precisely to both, projection, selection, natural join, arithmetic union ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, SELECT corresponds precisely to both, the intuitive multiset relational algebra ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, SELECT corresponds precisely to both, projection, selection, natural join, except ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, OPTIONAL corresponds precisely to both, the multiset non-recursive Datalog with safe negation.
We prove that the fragment UNION, SELECT corresponds precisely to both, the multiset non-recursive Datalog with safe negation.
We prove that the fragment UNION, FILTER corresponds precisely to both, projection, selection, natural join, arithmetic union ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, MINUS corresponds precisely to both, projection, selection, natural join, except ).
the fragment formed by AND.
We prove that the fragment UNION, FILTER corresponds precisely to both, the multiset non-recursive Datalog with safe negation.
We prove that the fragment UNION, MINUS corresponds precisely to both, projection, selection, natural join, arithmetic union ).
We prove that the fragment UNION, MINUS corresponds precisely to both, the intuitive multiset relational algebra ).