a universally accessible platform that allows data to be processed by automated tools.
a universally accessible platform that allows data to be shared by people.
For the Web to reach the Web to reach its full potential full potential, the Web to reach its full potential must evolve into The ` Semantic Web ', providing a universally accessible platform.
a universally accessible platform that allows data to be shared by automated tools.
a universally accessible platform that allows data to be processed by people.
The ‘ Semantic Web ’ is a recent initiative of the World Wide Web Consortium, with the goal of extending The ` Semantic Web ' to facilitate universally accessible content.
The ‘ Semantic Web ’ is a recent initiative of the World Wide Web Consortium, with the goal of extending The ` Semantic Web ' to facilitate The ` Semantic Web '.
The ‘ Semantic Web ’ is a recent initiative of the World Wide Web Consortium, with the goal of extending The ` Semantic Web ' to facilitate Web automation.
However, if The ` Semantic Web ' is going to be assimilated a clear migration path from present technologies to new ones is required.
However, if The ` Semantic Web ' is going to be adopted a clear migration path from present technologies to new ones is required.
Semantic Web initiative in Europe providing targeted outreach to ensure Semantic Web technologies move into the mainstream of networked computing.
Semantic Web initiative in Europe providing targeted demonstrations to ensure Semantic Web technologies move into the mainstream of networked computing.
Semantic Web initiative in Europe providing targeted research to ensure Semantic Web technologies move into the mainstream of networked computing.
The SWAD-Europe project aims to support the World Wide Web Consortium -RRB- Semantic Web initiative in Europe.
The SWAD-Europe project aims to support the World Wide Web Consortium -RRB- Semantic Web initiative in Europe.
The SWAD-Europe project aims to support the development and deployment of The ` Semantic Web ' specifications through testing activities.
The SWAD-Europe project aims to support the development and deployment of The ` Semantic Web ' specifications through research activities.
The SWAD-Europe project aims to support the development and deployment of The ` Semantic Web ' specifications through implementation activities.