Low buffy coat mitochondrial DNA copy number is associated with incident risk of stroke and poststroke mortality, however, its prognostic utility has not been extensively explored . Our goal was to investigate whether low buffy coat mitochondrial DNA copy number is a marker and causal determinant of poststroke outcomes using epidemiologic and genetic studies .

First, we performed association testing between baseline buffy coat mitochondrial DNA copy number measurements and 1-month poststroke outcomes in 3,498 cases of acute, first stroke from 25 countries from the international, multicenter case-control study Importance of Conventional and Emerging Risk Factors of Stroke in Different Regions and Ethnic Groups of the World . Then, we performed 2-sample mendelian randomization analyses to evaluate potential causative effects of low mitochondrial DNA copy number on 3-month modified Rankin Scale  score. Genetic variants associated with mitochondrial DNA copy number levels were derived from the UK Biobank study, and corresponding effects on 3-month modified Rankin Scale score were ascertained from the Genetics of Ischemic Stroke Functional Outcome study .

A 1-SD lower mitochondrial DNA copy number at baseline was associated with stroke severity . Independently of baseline stroke severity, lower mitochondrial DNA copy number was associated with increased odds of greater 1-month disability, poor functional outcome status, and mortality . Subgroup analyses demonstrated consistent effects across stroke type, sex, age, country income level, and education level. In addition, mitochondrial DNA copy number significantly improved reclassification of poor functional outcome status and mortality beyond known prognosticators . With the use of independent datasets, mendelian randomization revealed that a 1-SD decrease in genetically determined mitochondrial DNA copy number was associated with increased odds of greater 3-month disability quantified by ordinal modified Rankin Scale score  and poor functional outcome status .

Buffy coat mitochondrial DNA copy number is a novel and robust marker of poststroke prognosis that may also be a causal determinant of poststroke outcomes .

This study provides Class II evidence that low buffy coat mitochondrial DNA copy number was associated with worse baseline severity and 1-month outcomes in patients with ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke .

