The Boston Puerto Rican Health Study is a longitudinal study following self-identified Puerto Rican older adults living in the Greater Boston area . Studies have shown higher prevalence of hypertension and type 2 diabetes within this ethnic group compared to age-matched non-Hispanic White adults . In this study, we investigated the associations of hypertension and type 2 diabetes comorbidity on brain structural integrity and cognitive capacity in community-dwelling Puerto Rican adults and compared these measures with older adult participants from the Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative and National Alzheimer Coordinating Center databases .

Boston Puerto Rican Health Study participants who underwent brain MRI and cognitive testing were divided into 4 groups based on their hypertension and type 2 diabetes status . We assessed microstructural integrity of white matter pathways using diffusion MRI, brain macrostructural integrity using hippocampal volumes, and brain age using T1-weighted MRI and cognitive test scores . Boston Puerto Rican Health Study results were then compared with results from non-Hispanic White and Hispanic participants from the Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative and National Alzheimer Coordinating Center databases .

The prevalence of hypertension was almost 2 times and of type 2 diabetes was 5 times higher in Boston Puerto Rican Health Study than in Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative non-Hispanic White participants . Diffusion MRI showed clear deterioration patterns in major white matter tracts in the hypertension+ and type 2 diabetes+ group and, to a lesser extent, in the hypertension+ and type 2 diabetes− group compared to the hypertension− and type 2 diabetes− group . hypertension+ and type 2 diabetes+ participants also had the smallest hippocampal volume and larger brain aging deviations . Trends toward lower executive function and global cognitive scores were observed in hypertension+ and type 2 diabetes+ relative to hypertension− and type 2 diabetes− individuals . MRI measures and the Mini-Mental State Examination scores from the hypertension+ and type 2 diabetes+ Boston Puerto Rican Health Study group resembled those of Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative White participants with progressive mild cognitive impairment, while the Boston Puerto Rican Health Study hypertension− and type 2 diabetes− participants resembled participants with stable mild cognitive impairment . The Boston Puerto Rican Health Study was not significantly different from the Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative + National Alzheimer Coordinating Center Hispanic cohort on imaging or Mini-Mental State Examination measures .

The effects of type 2 diabetes and hypertension comorbidity led to greater brain structural disruptions than hypertension alone . The high prevalence of hypertension and type 2 diabetes in the Puerto Rican population may be a key factor contributing to health disparities in cognitive impairment in this group compared to non-Hispanic White adults in the same age range .

