Patients with pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis can be especially vulnerable to cognitive impairment due to the onset of multiple sclerosis during a critical period for CNS development and maturation . The objective of this longitudinal study was to assess long-term cognitive functioning and socioprofessional attainment in the Italian pediatric multiple sclerosis cohort, previously assessed at baseline and 2 and 5 years .

The 48 patients evaluated at the 5-year assessment were screened for inclusion . All participants were assessed with a cognitive test battery exploring 4 different cognitive abilities . Depression, fatigue, and socioprofessional attainment were also assessed . Mean cognitive z scores were calculated for the whole cohort, and their evolution over time was analyzed with an analysis of variance for repeated measurements test . Predictors of cognitive worsening or improvement were assessed with a linear mixed-model analysis .

Thirty-three participants were included . The global cognitive performance worsened at year 2 and improved at year 5, although the z score remained significantly lower than at baseline . There was no significant variation between years 5 and 12 . Higher IQ at baseline and lower number of relapses in the 2 years before baseline predicted better cognitive performances . Eighteen patients failed at least 2 tests compared with healthy controls and were defined as cognitively impaired . The presence of cognitive impairment predicted worse socioprofessional attainment .

The longitudinal cognitive trajectory in pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis has a heterogeneous course over time, with a decline in the first years followed by a partial recovery over the long term . However, at the last follow-up evaluation, the proportion of impaired patients was more than double compared with baseline, with a negative impact on the individuals socioprofessional attainment in adulthood . This study underscores how cognitive reserve may partially mitigate the negative effects of brain damage, highlighting the critical importance of intellectual enrichment early during the disease course .
