The successful application of Web Service technologies to real-world problems, such as e-Science, requires not only meta-data framework as the basis for inter-agent communication.
The successful application of Grid Service technologies to real-world problems, such as e-Science, requires not only the development of a common vocabulary.
The successful application of Web Service technologies to real-world problems, such as e-Science, requires not only the development of a common vocabulary.
The successful application of Web Service technologies to real-world problems, such as e-Science, requires not only meta-data framework as the basis for service integration.
The successful application of Grid Service technologies to real-world problems, such as e-Science, requires not only meta-data framework as the basis for inter-agent communication.
problem solving.
The successful application of Grid Service technologies to real-world problems, such as e-Science, requires not only meta-data framework as the basis for service integration.
The successful application of Grid Service technologies to real-world problems, such as e-Science, requires not only the access and use of a rich repository of domain-specific knowledge for problem.
The successful application of Web Service technologies to real-world problems, such as e-Science, requires not only the access and use of a rich repository of domain-specific knowledge for problem.
Both requirements are met by the respective outcomes of ontological engineering initiatives.
Both requirements are met by the respective outcomes of knowledge engineering initiatives.
In this paper we discuss a novel, knowledge-based approach to resource synthesis ).
In this paper we discuss a novel, knowledge-based approach to service composition ).
resource synthesis ) which draws on the functionality of semantic web services to represent available resources.
service composition ) which draws on the functionality of semantic web services to represent available resources.
resource synthesis ) which draws on the functionality of semantic web services to expose available resources.
service composition ) which draws on the functionality of semantic web services to expose available resources.
a novel, knowledge-based approach we use exploits domain knowledge to provide advice on service selection and instantiation.
a novel, knowledge-based approach we use exploits domain knowledge to guide the service composition process.
a prototype workflow construction environment that supports the runtime recommendation of a service solution.
a prototype workflow construction environment that supports service discovery via semantic service descriptions.
a prototype workflow construction environment that supports knowledge-based configuration of selected services.
a novel, knowledge-based approach has been implemented in a prototype workflow construction environment.
The use of knowledge provides a basis for full automation of service composition via conventional planning algorithms.
Workflows can be executed via a more fluid approach such as WSDL-based service grounding.
Workflows can be executed through a domain-specific direct mapping mechanism.
Workflows produced by this system.
a more fluid approach such as WSDL-based service grounding have been used to demonstrate practical benefits in the context of the Geodise initiative.