Information on stroke among severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 vaccines remains scarce . We report stroke incidence as an adverse event following immunization among recipients of 79,399,446 doses of 6 different severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 vaccines between December 24, 2020, and August 31, 2021, in Mexico .

This retrospective descriptive study analyzed stroke incidence per million doses among hospitalized adult patients during an 8-month interval . According to the World Health Organization, adverse event following immunizations were defined as clinical events occurring within 30 days after immunization and categorized as either nonserious or serious, depending on severity, treatment, and hospital admission requirements . Acute ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and cerebral venous thrombosis cases were collected through a passive epidemiologic surveillance system in which local health providers report potential adverse event following immunization to the Mexican General Board of Epidemiology . Data were captured with standardized case report formats by an ad hoc committee appointed by the Mexican Ministry of Health to evaluate potential neurologic adverse event following immunization against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 .

We included 56 patients for an overall incidence of 0.71 cases per 1,000,000 administered doses . In 27 patients, the event was diagnosed within the first 24 hours after immunization . The most frequent subtype was Acute ischemic stroke in 43 patients, followed by intracerebral hemorrhage in 9 and subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral venous thrombosis, each with 2 cases . Overall, the most common risk factors were hypertension in 33 patients and diabetes in 22 . Median hospital length of stay was 6 days . At discharge, functional outcome was good in 41.1 percent of patients . in-hospital mortality rate was 21.4 percent .

Stroke is an exceedingly rare adverse event following immunization against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 . Preexisting stroke risk factors were identified in most patients . Further research is needed to evaluate causal associations between severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 vaccines and stroke .

