analyzing the performance of federated query processing strategies on semantic data.
In this paper we present a comprehensive benchmark suite for testing.
In this paper we present FedBench.
The major challenge lies in the heterogeneity of semantic data use cases at both the data such as varying data incomplete knowledge about data sources.
The major challenge lies in the heterogeneity of semantic data use cases at both query level such as varying data availability of different statistics.
The major challenge lies in the heterogeneity of semantic data use cases at both query level such as varying data access interfaces.
The major challenge lies in the heterogeneity of semantic data use cases at both the data such as varying data access interfaces.
The major challenge lies in the heterogeneity of semantic data use cases at both the data such as varying data varying degrees of query expressiveness.
The major challenge lies in the heterogeneity of semantic data use cases at both query level such as varying data incomplete knowledge about data sources.
cases where applications may face different settings.
The major challenge lies in the heterogeneity of semantic data use cases at both the data such as varying data availability of different statistics.
The major challenge lies in the heterogeneity of semantic data use cases at both query level such as varying data varying degrees of query expressiveness.
a highly flexible benchmark suite which can be customized to compare competing approaches.
Accounting for this heterogeneity, we present a highly flexible benchmark suite.
a highly flexible benchmark suite which can be customized to accommodate a variety of use cases.
We elaborate on the choice of query sets.
We elaborate on the choice of data.
We discuss design decisions, highlight the flexibility in customization.
various application scenarios where We indicate both the benefits.
The practicability of We benchmark is demonstrated by a rigorous evaluation of various application scenarios.
limitations of the state-of-the-art federated query processing strategies for semantic data.