The World Wide Web envisions a future.
phrases used in billions of documents.
a future where computer programs ) can make sense by assigning common “ meaning ” to the millions of terms.
a future where applications ) can make sense by assigning common “ meaning ” to the millions of phrases.
a future where applications ) can make more productive use of all the information on The World Wide Web by assigning common “ meaning ” to the millions of phrases.
a future where computer programs ) can make more productive use of all the information on The World Wide Web by assigning common “ meaning ” to the millions of terms.
a future where computer programs ) can make more productive use of all the information on The World Wide Web by assigning common “ meaning ” to the millions of phrases.
terms used in billions of documents.
a future where applications ) can make more productive use of all the information on The World Wide Web by assigning common “ meaning ” to the millions of terms.
a future where computer programs ) can make sense by assigning common “ meaning ” to the millions of phrases.
a future where applications ) can make sense by assigning common “ meaning ” to the millions of terms.
AI representation must rise to the occasion and work with imprecision.
knowledge representation must rise to the occasion and work with decentralized representations.
knowledge representation must rise to the occasion and work with imprecision.
AI representation must rise to the occasion and work with incompleteness.
AI representation must rise to the occasion and work with decentralized representations.
knowledge representation must rise to the occasion and work with incompleteness.
we have made good progress in Standard web-based representations design.
Standard web-based representations are an essential enabler.
the other hand navigating this mass of information.
But we still rely on humans to assign semantics The World Wide Web has grown at startling rates because humans are prolific at producing enormous volumes of unstructured information.
unstructured information that is, information without explicit semantics; on the other hand has proven to be both profitable to the point that there is a B search advertising industry.
unstructured information that is, information without explicit semantics; on the other hand has proven to be both possible.
But here there is a big leap of faith The World Wide Web has grown at startling rates because humans are prolific at producing enormous volumes of unstructured information.
a B search advertising industry’s is not practical to expect the same will automatically happen for semantically enriched content.
And yet we need semantics to better leverage the huge value on The World Wide Web.