It is sometimes claimed that adding inferred axioms, e.g. the inferred class hierarchy, to an ontology can improve reasoning performance.
It is sometimes claimed that adding inferred axioms, e.g. the inferred class hierarchy, to an ontology can improve an ontology’s usability in practice.
While such beliefs may have an effect on how ontologies are published, there is no conclusive empirical evidence to support such beliefs.
To develop an understanding of the impact of this practice, both for ontology curators we survey to what extent published ontologies in BioPortal already contain such beliefs most specific class assertions.
To develop an understanding of the impact of this practice, both for ontology curators we survey to what extent published ontologies in BioPortal already contain such beliefs the inferred class hierarchy.
To develop an understanding of the impact of this practice, both for tools we survey to what extent published ontologies in BioPortal already contain such beliefs most specific class assertions.
To develop an understanding of the impact of this practice, both for tools we survey to what extent published ontologies in BioPortal already contain such beliefs the inferred class hierarchy.
Furthermore, we investigate how added can affect the performance of standard reasoning tasks such as classification.
added inferred axioms from these sets.
Furthermore, we investigate how added can affect the performance of standard reasoning tasks such as realisation.
We find that axioms from the the inferred class hierarchy.
We find that most specific class assertions are highly prevalent in published biomedical ontologies.
We reasoning evaluation indicates that added are likely to be inconsequential for reasoning performance.
added inferred axioms.
negative effects that seem to depend.
However, we observe instances positive effects on the used reasoner for a given ontology.
However, we observe instances negative effects on the used reasoner for a given ontology.
However, we observe instances of on the used reasoner for a given ontology.
positive effects that seem to depend.
a task-specific analysis that determines whether desired effects are obtained.
These results suggest that the practice of adding inferred axioms during the release process of ontologies should be subject to a task-specific analysis.