For early diagnosis and disease monitoring of neurodegenerative diseases, reliable blood biomarkers are needed . Elevated levels of neurofilament light chain protein, an axonal damage marker, have been described across different neurodegenerative diseases, with highest values in prion diseases and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . Synaptic degeneration is a common early feature in most neurodegenerative diseases and seems to precede neuronal degeneration in prion disease . However, synaptic markers in blood are still missing . Here, we investigated whether the brain-specific protein Beta-synuclein might be a suitable blood biomarker for early diagnosis and evaluation of synaptic integrity in prion disease .

We analyzed blood Beta-synuclein with a newly established digital ELISA and neurofilament light chain protein with a single-molecule array in samples obtained from human participants and prion and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis animal models . Furthermore, Beta-synuclein was investigated in brain tissue of individuamyotrophic lateral sclerosis with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and controls .

We investigated 308 patients, including 129 cases with prion disease, 8 presymptomatic PRNP variation carriers, 60 with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 68 with other neurodegenerative diseases, and 43 control patients . In Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease symptomatic cases, Beta-synuclein and neurofilament light chain protein were markedly increased compared to all other diagnostic groups . In the large majority of presymptomatic PRNP variation carriers, Beta-synuclein and neurofilament light chain protein levels were within normal ranges . In prion disease animal models, Beta-synuclein and neurofilament light chain protein displayed normal levels in the presymptomatic phase with a sudden elevation at disease onset and a plateau in the symptomatic phase . In contrast to neurofilament light chain protein, Beta-synuclein was not elevated in either symptomatic patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis animal model . In the discrimination between prion disease and all other groups, Beta-synuclein was superior to neurofilament light chain protein . In addition, brain tissue Beta-synuclein showed significantly reduced levels in patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease compared to control patients .

Blood Beta-synuclein was significantly elevated in patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, reflecting ongoing synaptic damage, and showed good discriminative characteristics . We therefore propose it as a candidate blood marker for early diagnosis and monitoring of synaptic integrity in prion disease .
