Several ontology repositories provide access to the growing collection of ontologies on the Semantic Web.
Some repositories collect ontologies automatically by crawling the Semantic Web; in other repositories, users submit ontologies users.
In addition to providing search across multiple ontologies, the added value of ontology repositories lies in the ontology-mapping metadata that users may contain.
information provided by ontology authors, such as intended use.
the ontology-mapping metadata may include feedback.
the ontology-mapping metadata may include information.
information provided by ontology authors, such as ontologies’ scope.
mapping metadata that relates concepts from different ontologies.
the ontology-mapping metadata may include mapping metadata.
feedback provided by users such as ontologies' experiences in using the ontologies or reviews of the content.
In this paper, we focus on the ontology-mapping metadata to collect ontology mappings.
In this paper, we focus on community-based method to collect ontology mappings.
mappings collected from the user community.
More specifically, we develop a model for representing the metadata.
More specifically, we develop a model for representing mappings.
the metadata associated with the mapping.
we use a model to bring together more than 30,000 mappings from 7 sources.
upload mappings created with other tools.
we also validate a model by extending BioPortal– a repository of biomedical ontologies that we have developed— to enable users to create single concept-to-concept mappings in a model graphical user interface, to upload mappings to comment on the mappings and to discuss other tools, and to visualize the mappings.
we also validate a model by extending BioPortal– a repository of biomedical ontologies that we have developed— to enable users to create single concept-to-concept mappings in a model graphical user interface, to download mappings to comment on the mappings and to discuss other tools, and to visualize the corresponding metadata.
we also validate a model by extending BioPortal– a repository of biomedical ontologies that we have developed— to enable users to create single concept-to-concept mappings in a model graphical user interface, to download mappings to comment on the mappings and to discuss other tools, and to visualize the mappings.
download mappings created with other tools.
we also validate a model by extending BioPortal– a repository of biomedical ontologies that we have developed— to enable users to create single concept-to-concept mappings in a model graphical user interface, to upload mappings to comment on the mappings and to discuss other tools, and to visualize the corresponding metadata.