Alzheimer dementia is a complex clinical syndrome that can be defined broAlzheimer diseasely as an amnestic multidomain dementia . We previously reported human cortical proteins that are implicated in Alzheimer dementia . To understand the pathologic correlates of these proteins for underlying disease mechanisms, we investigated cortical protein associations with common age-related neuropathologies .

Participants were community-dwelling older Alzheimer diseaseults from 2 cohort studies of aging and dementia . All underwent detailed annual clinical evaluations, and brain autopsies were performed after death . We use Alzheimer disease to refer to pathologically defined disease and Alzheimer dementia to refer to the clinical syndrome . Indices for Alzheimer disease, cortical Lewy bodies, limbic predominant age-related TAR DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic changes, hippocampal sclerosis, macroscopic infarcts, microinfarcts, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, atherosclerosis, and arteriolosclerosis were quantified during uniform structured neuropathologic evaluations . High-throughput protein abundances from frozen dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were quantified with mass spectrometry–based tandem mass tag proteomics analysis . Eleven human cortical proteins implicated in Alzheimer dementia, including angiotensin-converting enzyme, calcium-regulated heat-stable protein 1, proprocathepsin Hepsin H, double C2-like domain-containing protein α, islet cell autoantigen 1–like protein, serine Beta-lactamase–like protein LACTB, mitochondrial, pleckstrin homology domain–containing family A member 1, replication termination factor 2, sorting nexin-32, syntaxin-4, and syntaxin-6, were previously identified with an integrative approach . Logistic regression analysis examined the association of protein expression with each of the neuropathologic indices .

A total of 391 older adults were included . We did not observe associations of these protein targets with pathologic diagnosis of Alzheimer disease . In contrast, multiple proteins were associated with non-Alzheimer disease neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular conditions . In particular, higher calcium-regulated heat-stable protein 1 expression was associated with cortical Lewy bodies and macroscopic infarcts, and higher procathepsin H expression was associated with limbic predominant age-related TAR DNA binding protein 43 encephalopathy neuropathologic changes and arteriolosclerosis . Furthermore, while higher syntaxin-6 expression increased the risk of Alzheimer dementia, the protein was not associated with any of the neuropathologic indices investigated .

Cortical proteins implicated in Alzheimer dementia do not necessarily work through Alzheimer disease pathogenesis. Rather, non-Alzheimer disease neurodegenerative and vascular diseases and other pathways are at play . Furthermore, some proteins are pleiotrophic and associated with both neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular pathologies .

