the belief that ontologies can help with reuse in knowledge representation.
One of the original motivations behind ontology research was the belief.
the ontologies that are developed with reuse in mind, such as controlled terminologies.
the ontologies that are developed with reuse in mind, such as standard reference ontologies.
However, many of the ontologies are extremely large, while the users often need to reuse only a small part of these resources in many of the ontologies such as standard reference ontologies.
However, many of the ontologies are extremely large, while the users often need to reuse only a small part of these resources in many of the ontologies such as controlled terminologies, work.
the ontologies that are developed with reuse in mind.
Specifying various views of an ontology enables users to limit the set of concepts that users see.
a view where a user specifies the central concept.
In this paper, we develop the concept of a Traversal View, the depth of the traversal.
a view where a user specifies concepts of interest.
In this paper, we develop the concept of a Traversal View, a view.
In this paper, we develop the concept of a Traversal View, the relationships to traverse to find other concepts to include in the view.
organ parts that surround Heart.
organs that are contained in Heart.
organs that surround Heart.
For example, given a large ontology of anatomy, a user may use a Traversal View to extract organs.
organ parts that are contained in Heart.
For example, given a large ontology of anatomy, a user may use a Traversal View to extract a concept of Heart.
For example, given a large ontology of anatomy, a user may use a Traversal View to extract organ parts.
We define the notion of Traversal Views formally, describe We tool for defining Traversal Views.
We define the notion of Traversal Views formally, present a strategy for maintaining a Traversal View through ontology evolution tool for extracting Traversal Views.
We define the notion of Traversal Views formally, present a strategy for maintaining a Traversal View through ontology evolution tool for defining Traversal Views.
We define the notion of Traversal Views formally, describe We tool for extracting Traversal Views.
We define the notion of Traversal Views formally, discuss Traversal Views formally properties tool for extracting Traversal Views.
We define the notion of Traversal Views formally, discuss Traversal Views formally properties tool for defining Traversal Views.