function-free Horn rules are decidable logics with interesting, yet orthogonal expressive power: from the rules perspective, OWL-DL is restricted to tree-like rules, but provides both existentially and universally quantified full, monotonic negation.
function-free Horn rules are decidable logics with interesting, yet orthogonal expressive power: from the rules perspective, OWL-DL is restricted to tree-like rules, but provides both existentially and universally quantified variables.
Both OWL-DL are decidable logics with interesting, yet orthogonal expressive power: from the rules perspective, OWL-DL is restricted to tree-like rules, but provides both existentially and universally quantified variables.
Both OWL-DL are decidable logics with interesting, yet orthogonal expressive power: from the rules perspective, OWL-DL is restricted to tree-like rules, but provides both existentially and universally quantified full, monotonic negation.
From the description logic perspective, rules are restricted to universal quantification.
From the description logic perspective, rules allow for the interaction of variables in arbitrary ways.
a combination of rules is desirable for building Semantic Web ontologies.
a combination of OWL-DL is desirable for building Semantic Web ontologies.
several such combinations have already been discussed.
Clearly.
However, such a combination might easily lead to the undecidability of interesting reasoning problems.
similar decidable combinations proposed so far.
Here, we present a decidable such combination.
a decidable such combination which is, to the best of we knowledge, more general than similar decidable combinations.
Decidability is obtained by restricting rules to so-called DL-safe ones, requiring each variable in a rule to occur in a non-DL-atom in the rule body.
we discuss query answering in such a combined logic expressive power by means of a non-trivial example.
we show that query answering in such a combined logic is decidable.
Finally, we present an algorithm for query answering in SHIQ extended with DL-safe rules based on the reduction to disjunctive datalog.