Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains integration by services on the Semantic Web is a significant problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains integration by services on the Semantic Web is a challenging problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains integration by agents on the Semantic Web is a challenging problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains analysis by services on the Semantic Web is a challenging problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains analysis by agents on the Semantic Web is a challenging problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains analysis by services on the Semantic Web is a significant problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains discovery by agents on the Semantic Web is a challenging problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains integration by agents on the Semantic Web is a significant problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains discovery by services on the Semantic Web is a significant problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains discovery by agents on the Semantic Web is a significant problem.
Images represent a key source of information in many domains is a significant problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains analysis by agents on the Semantic Web is a significant problem.
Images represent a key source of the ability to exploit many domains through many domains discovery by services on the Semantic Web is a challenging problem.
Images represent a key source of information in many domains is a challenging problem.
To date the semantic indexing of images has concentrated on applying machine-learning techniques to a set of manually-annotated images in order to automatically label images with keywords.
Rules-By-Example which is based on a combination of Query-By-Example.
In this paper we propose a new hybrid, user-assisted approach, Rules-By-Example.
Rules-By-Example which is based on a combination of RuleML.
we Rules-By-Example user interface enables domain-experts to graphically define domain-specific rules ( e.g., color, texture, shape, size of regions ).
domain-specific rules that can infer high-level semantic descriptions of images from combinations of low-level visual features.
domain-specific rules ( e.g., color, texture, shape, size of regions ) which have been specified through examples.
semantically meaningful labels using terms.
Using domain-specific rules -LRB- e.g., color, texture, shape, size of regions -RRB- the system is able to analyze the visual features of any given image from this domain.
terms defined in the domain-specific ontology.
domain-specific rules that can infer high-level semantic descriptions of images from combinations of low-level visual features.
domain-specific rules -LRB- e.g., color, texture, shape, size of regions -RRB- which have been specified through examples.
Using domain-specific rules -LRB- e.g., color, texture, shape, size of regions -RRB- the system is able to generate semantically meaningful labels.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will maximize more flexible, accurate semantic indexing of images potential for processing by the Semantic Web services, tools and agents.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will maximize more flexible, accurate semantic indexing of images potential for discovery by the Semantic Web services, tools and agents.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will maximize more flexible, cost-effective semantic indexing of images potential for integration by the Semantic Web services, tools and agents.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will enable faster, more flexible, cost-effective and accurate semantic indexing of images.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will maximize more flexible, cost-effective semantic indexing of images potential for processing by the Semantic Web services, tools and agents.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will maximize more flexible, accurate semantic indexing of images potential for re-use by the Semantic Web services, tools and agents.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will maximize more flexible, accurate semantic indexing of images potential for integration by the Semantic Web services, tools and agents.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will maximize more flexible, cost-effective semantic indexing of images potential for re-use by the Semantic Web services, tools and agents.
We believe that this approach, in combination with traditional solutions, will maximize more flexible, cost-effective semantic indexing of images potential for discovery by the Semantic Web services, tools and agents.