personalization that capture different elements of a user’s operating context, such as her location , who her colleagues are While there are many sources of contextual information, her colleagues tend to vary from one user to another.
personalization that capture different elements of a user’s operating context, such as the task that her is currently engaged in, who her colleagues are While there are many sources of contextual information, her colleagues tend to vary from one user over time.
Increasingly, application developers are looking for ways to provide users with higher levels of personalization.
personalization that capture different elements of a user’s operating context, such as the task that her is currently engaged in, who her colleagues are While there are many sources of contextual information, her colleagues tend to vary from one user to another.
personalization that capture different elements of a user’s operating context, such as her location , who her colleagues are While there are many sources of contextual information, her colleagues tend to vary from one user over time.
a Semantic e-Wallet aimed at supporting automated discovery and access of personal resources.
Different users may rely on different location tracking functionality Different users may use different calendar systems In this paper, we describe work on a Semantic e-Wallet.
different location tracking functionality provided by different cell phone operators.
a Semantic e-Wallet aimed at supporting each represented as a Semantic Web Service.
the costs associated with the development and maintenance of context-aware applications.
A key objective is to provide a Semantic Web environment for open access to a user’s contextual resources, thereby reducing the costs.
A second objective is, through Semantic Web technologies, to empower users to selectively control who has access to users contextual information conditions.
A second objective is, through Semantic Web technologies, to empower users to selectively control who has access to under which conditions.
This work has been carried out in the context of a context-aware environment.
a context-aware environment aimed at enhancing everyday campus life.
This work has been carried out in the context of myCampus.
Empirical results are encouraging.
Empirical results obtained on Carnegie Mellon’s campus.