There is currently no consensus about the extent of gray matter atrophy that can be attributed to secondary changes after white matter lesions or the temporal and spatial relationships between the 2 phenomena . Elucidating this interplay will broaden the understanding of the combined inflammatory and neurodegenerative pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis, and separating atrophic changes due to primary and secondary neurodegenerative mechanisms will then be pivotal to properly evaluate treatment effects, especially if these treatments target the different processes individually . To untangle these complex pathologic mechanisms, this systematic review provides an essential first step, an objective and comprehensive overview of the existing in vivo knowledge of the relationship between brain white matter lesions and gray matter atrophy in patients diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis . The overall aim was to clarify the extent to which white matter lesions are associated with both global and regional gray matter atrophy and how this may differ in the different disease subtypes .

We searched MEDLINE and Embase for reports containing direct associations between brain gray matter and white matter lesion measures obtained by conventional MRI sequences in patients with clinically isolated syndrome and Multiple Sclerosis . No restriction was applied for publication date . The quality and risk of bias in included studies were evaluated with the Quality Assessment Tool for observational cohort and cross-sectional studies . Qualitative and descriptive analyses were performed .

A total of 90 articles were included. white matter lesion volumes were related mostly to global, cortical and deep gray matter volumes, and those significant associations were almost without exception negative, indicating that higher white matter lesion volumes were associated with lower gray matter volumes or lower cortical thicknesses . The most consistent relationship between white matter lesions and gray matter atrophy was seen in early disease and less so in progressive Multiple Sclerosis .

The findings suggest that gray matter neurodegeneration is mostly secondary to damage in the white matter during early disease stages while becoming more detached and dominated by other, possibly primary neurodegenerative disease mechanisms in progressive Multiple Sclerosis .

