Peripheral nerve impairments and dementia are common among older adults and share risk factors . However, few studies have examined whether peripheral nerve function and dementia are associated . We evaluated whether lower extremity peripheral nerve impairments were associated with higher incidence of dementia and whether associations differed by comorbidity subgroups .

We studied Black and White Health, Aging, and Body Composition Study participants 70 to 79 years of age and without dementia at enrollment . Lower extremity sensory and motor peripheral nerve function was measured at year 4 . Sensory nerve impairments were measured with monofilament and vibration threshold of the toe . Monofilament insensitivity was defined as unable to detect monofilament, and vibration detection impairment was defined as above 130 micrometers . Fibular motor impairments were defined as smaller than 1 mV compound motor action potential amplitude and slow nerve conduction velocity below 40 meters per second . Incident dementia over the following 11 years was determined from medical records, cognitive scores, and medications . Cox proportional hazard models adjusted for demographics and health conditions assessed associations of nerve impairments with incident dementia .

Monofilament 10 g and vibration detection insensitivity were associated with a higher risk of dementia after covariate adjustment . Estimates were elevated but not significant for monofilament 1.4 g, compound motor action potential amplitude, and conduction velocity . Increasing number of peripheral nerve impairments was associated with higher risk of dementia in a graded fashion . In subgroup analyses, effect estimates were generally higher among those with diabetes, low vitamin B12, and APOE Epsilon4 allele except for vibration detection .

Peripheral nerve impairments, especially sensory, were associated with a higher risk of dementia even after adjustment for age and other health factors . These associations may represent a shared susceptibility to nervous system degeneration .
