The central idea of Linked Data is that data publishers support applications in integrating data by complying to a set of best practices in vocabulary usage.
The central idea of Linked Data is that data publishers support applications in integrating data by complying to a set of best practices in metadata provision.
The central idea of Linked Data is that data publishers support applications in integrating data by complying to a set of best practices in the areas of linking.
The central idea of Linked Data is that data publishers support applications in discovering.
In 2011, the State of the LOD Cloud report analyzed the adoption of these best practices by linked datasets within different topical domains.
the LOD Cloud report was based on information.
information that was provided by the dataset publishers the dataset publishers themselves via the datahub.io Linked Data catalog via the datahub.io Linked Data catalog.
In this paper, we revisit the findings of the 2011 State of the LOD Cloud report based on a crawl of the Web of Linked Data.
In this paper, we update the findings of the 2011 State of the LOD Cloud report based on a crawl of the Web of Linked Data.
Linked Data conducted in April 2014.
data that can actually be retrieved by a Linked Data crawler.
We analyze how the adoption of the different best practices has changed and present an overview of the linkage relationships between datasets in the form of an updated LOD cloud diagram, this time not based on information from dataset providers, but on data.
Among others, we find that the number of linked datasets has approximately doubled between 2014.
Among others, we find that provenance metadata is still rarely provided by the data sources.
Among others, we find that there is increased agreement on common vocabularies for describing certain types of entities.
Among others, we find that the number of linked datasets has approximately doubled between 2011.
Among others, we find that license metadata is still rarely provided by the data sources.