Short-chain fatty acids are gut microbial metabolites that promote the disease process in a rodent model of Parkinson disease, but fecal levels of Short-chain fatty acids in patients with Parkinson disease  are reduced . Simultaneous assessments of fecal and plasma Short-chain fatty acid levels, and their interrelationships with the Parkinson disease  disease process, are scarce . We aimed to compare fecal and plasma levels of different Short-chain fatty acid subtypes in patients with Parkinson disease  and healthy controls to delineate their interrelations and link to gut microbiota changes and clinical severity of Parkinson disease .

A cohort of 96 patients with Parkinson disease and 85 controls were recruited from National Taiwan University Hospital . Fecal and plasma concentrations of Short-chain fatty acids were measured using chromatography and mass spectrometry . Gut microbiota was analyzed using metagenomic shotgun sequencing . Body mass index and medical comorbidities were evaluated and dietary information was obtained using a food frequency questionnaire . To assess motor and cognitive impairment, we used the Movement Disorder Society–Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and the Mini-Mental Status Examination .

Compared with controls, patients with Parkinson disease  had lower fecal but higher plasma concentrations of acetate, propionate, and butyrate . After adjustment for age, sex, disease duration, and anti-Parkinson disease  medication dosage, MDS-UParkinson disease RS part III motor scores correlated with reduced fecal levels of acetate, propionate, and butyrate and with increased plasma propionate concentrations in patients with Parkinson disease .  Mini-Mental Status Examination  scores negatively correlated with plasma levels of butyrate and valerate after adjustment for confounders . Short-chain fatty acids-producing gut bacteria correlated positively with fecal levels of Short-chain fatty acids in healthy controls but revealed no association in patients with Parkinson disease . In the Parkinson disease  patient group, the abundance of proinflammatory microbes, such as Clostridiales bacterium NK3B98 and Ruminococcus sp AM07-15, significantly correlated with decreased fecal levels and increased plasma levels of Short-chain fatty acids, especially propionic acid .

Reductions in fecal Short-chain fatty acids but increased plasma Short-chain fatty acids were observed in patients with Parkinson disease  and corelated to specific gut microbiota changes and the clinical severity of Parkinson disease .

This study provides Class III evidence that gut metabolite Short-chain fatty acids distinguish between patients with Parkinson disease  and controls and are associated with disease severity in patients with Parkinson disease .

