Linked Open Data faces severe issues of availability quality.
Linked Open Data faces severe issues of scalability quality.
Linked Open Data faces severe issues of data quality.
severe issues of data are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints do not respond can be out-of-date.
severe issues of scalability are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints results can be out-of-date.
severe issues of availability are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints results can be out-of-date.
data consumers performing federated queries.
severe issues of data are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints results can be wrong.
severe issues of data are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints do not respond can be wrong.
severe issues of availability are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints do not respond can be wrong.
severe issues of data are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints results can be out-of-date.
severe issues of scalability are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints results can be wrong.
severe issues of availability are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints results can be wrong.
severe issues of availability are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints do not respond can be out-of-date.
severe issues of scalability are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints do not respond can be wrong.
severe issues of scalability are observed by data consumers SPARQL endpoints do not respond can be out-of-date.
If a data consumer finds an error, how can a data consumer fix a data consumer?.
this paper raises the issue of the writability of Linked Data.
In this paper, we devise an extension of the federation of Linked Data to data consumers.
A data consumer can make partial copies of different datasets.
A data consumer can make A data consumer available through a SPARQL endpoint.
A data consumer can update A data consumer share updates with data providers.
A data consumer can update A data consumer local copy with data providers.
A data consumer can update A data consumer share updates with consumers.
A data consumer can update A data consumer local copy with consumers.
Update sharing.
Update improves general data replicated data creates opportunities for federated query engines to improve availability.
Update improves general data quality.
However, when updates occur in an uncontrolled way, consistency issues arise.
In this paper, we define these fragments as SPARQL CONSTRUCT federated queries.
In this paper, we define these fragments as SPARQL CONSTRUCT propose a correction criterion to maintain these fragments incrementally without reevaluating the query.
We define a coordination free protocol based on the counting of triples derivations.
We define a coordination free protocol based on the counting of provenance.
We analyze the theoretical complexity of the protocol in time.
We analyze the theoretical complexity of the protocol in space.
We analyze the theoretical complexity of the protocol in traffic.
Experimental results suggest the scalability of We approach to Linked Data.