Many LOD datasets, such as LinkedGeoData are voluminous.
Many LOD datasets, such as LinkedGeoData are process large amounts of requests from diverse applications.
Many LOD datasets, such as DBpedia are voluminous.
Many LOD datasets, such as DBpedia are process large amounts of requests from diverse applications.
services rely on full local LOD replications to ensure faster querying.
services rely on partial local LOD replications to ensure faster processing.
services rely on partial local LOD replications to ensure faster querying.
Many data products rely on partial local LOD replications to ensure faster querying.
Many data products rely on partial local LOD replications to ensure faster processing.
Many data products rely on full local LOD replications to ensure faster processing.
services rely on full local LOD replications to ensure faster processing.
Many data products rely on full local LOD replications to ensure faster querying.
Given the evolving nature of the authoritative datasets, to ensure up-to-date replicas frequent replacements are required at a great cost.
Given the evolving nature of the authoritative datasets, to ensure consistent replicas frequent replacements are required at a great cost.
Given the evolving nature of the original datasets, to ensure up-to-date replicas frequent replacements are required at a great cost.
Given the evolving nature of the original datasets, to ensure consistent replicas frequent replacements are required at a great cost.
In this paper, we introduce an approach for interest-based RDF update propagation.
propagation which propagates only interesting parts of updates from the source to the target dataset.
Effectively, this enables remote applications to ‘ subscribe ’ to relevant datasets.
Effectively, this reflect the necessary changes locally without the need to frequently replace the entire dataset ( or a relevant subset ).
we approach is based on a formal definition for graph-pattern-based interest expressions.
graph-pattern-based interest expressions that is used to filter interesting parts of updates from the source.
value of we approach.
we perform a comprehensive evaluation based on DBpedia Live updates, to confirm the validity.
we implement the approach in the iRap framework.