Black and Hispanic people with multiple sclerosis have been found to have different disease courses or worse outcomes associated with multiple sclerosis compared to White people with multiple sclerosis . They are also more likely to be negatively affected by social determinants of health, further worsening disparities in outcomes . As these disparities may affect treatment response, non-White people with multiple sclerosis  must be included in trials for greater generalizability of research and therefore more inclusive treatment plans . In this study, we aimed to evaluate how representation of non-White groups in phase III trials of approved disease-modifying therapies has evolved over time and how race and ethnicity are reported in medical journals and on manufacturer websites .

We conducted a systematic review of the PubMed database from 1995 to June 2020 to identify manufacturer-sponsored phase III trials for Food and Drug Administration–approved multiple sclerosis disease-modifying therapies . We explored how race and ethnicity were reported in trial publications . Using studies where information was available, we analyzed the representation of non-White people with multiple sclerosis  over time and compared to multinational census data . We reviewed patient care provider and health care provider facing websites of available disease-modifying therapies to assess the dissemination of information on racial and ethnic representation in trials .

A total of 44 phase III trial publications were reviewed, representing 45 trials, among which 17 did not report race or ethnicity, 14 reported race and ethnicity as proportion of White participants only, and 14 reported 2 or more races and ethnicities . When compared to multinational census data, non-White people with multiple sclerosis  were significantly underrepresented in multiple sclerosis trials . Due to lack of data, trends in representation of other races and ethnicities could not be assessed .

Race and ethnicity are underreported in multiple sclerosis DMT trial publications and race and ethnic representation are omitted from manufacturer websites . When available, data show that non-White people with multiple sclerosis  are significantly underrepresented in multiple sclerosis trials . The availability of this information is crucial for patients, together with their health care providers, to make informed decisions about their care .

