The increasing availability of large RDF datasets offers an exciting opportunity to use such data to build predictive models using machine learning algorithms.
However, the massive size and distributed nature of RDF data calls for approaches to learning from RDF data in the SPARQL endpoint of the RDF store.
a setting where the data can be accessed only through a query interface.
However, the massive size and distributed nature of RDF data calls for approaches to learning from RDF data in a setting.
In applications there is a need for algorithms.
algorithms that allow the predictive model to be incrementally updated in response to changes in the data.
applications where the data are subject to frequent updates.
Furthermore, in some applications, the attributes hence need to be discovered by the algorithm.
the attributes that are relevant for specific prediction tasks.
Furthermore, in some applications, the attributes are not known a priori.
We present an approach to learning Relational Bayesian Classifiers from RDF data that addresses such scenarios.
Specifically, we show how to build Relational Bayesian Classifiers from RDF data using statistical queries through the SPARQL endpoint of the RDF store.
We compare the communication complexity of We algorithm with one.
one that requires direct centralized access to the data.
one that has to retrieve the entire RDF dataset from the remote location for processing.
We establish the conditions.
the conditions under which the Relational Bayesian Classifier models can be incrementally updated in response to addition of RDF data.
the conditions under which the Relational Bayesian Classifier models can be incrementally updated in response to deletion of RDF data.
We show how We approach can be extended to the setting where the attributes are not known a priori, by selectively crawling the RDF data for attributes of interest.
the attributes that are relevant for prediction.
We provide open source implementation.
We evaluate the proposed approach on several large RDF datasets.