Persons with epilepsy, especially those with drug resistant epilepsy, may benefit from inpatient services such as admission to the epilepsy monitoring unit and epilepsy surgery . The Coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic caused reductions in these services within the US during 2020 . This article highlights changes in resources, admissions, and procedures among epilepsy centers accredited by the National Association of Epilepsy Centers .

We compared data reported in 2019, prior to the Coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, and 2020 from all 260 level 3 and level 4 National Association of Epilepsy Centers accredited epilepsy centers . Data were described using frequency for categorical variables and median for continuous variables and were analyzed by center level, center population category, and geographical location . Qualitative responses from center directors to questions regarding the impact from Coronavirus disease 2019 were summarized utilizing thematic analysis . Responses from the National Association of Epilepsy Centers center annual reports as well as a supplemental Coronavirus disease 2019 survey were included .

epilepsy monitoring unit admissions declined 23 percent in 2020, with largest median reductions in level 3 centers and adult centers . The drop in admissions was more substantial in the East North Central, East South Central, Mid Atlantic, and New England US Census divisions . Survey respondents attributed reduced admissions to re-assigning epilepsy monitoring unit beds, restrictions on elective admissions, reduced staffing, and patient reluctance for elective admission . Treatment surgeries declined by 371 cases, with the largest reduction occurring in VNS implantations and temporal lobectomies . All other procedure volumes increased, including a 35 percent increase in corpus callosotomies .

In the US, access to care for persons with epilepsy declined during the Coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic in 2020 . Adult patients, those relying on level 3 centers for care, and many persons in the eastern half of the US were most affected .

