An increasing number of scientific communities rely on Semantic Web ontologies to interpret data within and across research domains.
An increasing number of scientific communities rely on Semantic Web ontologies to share data within and across research domains.
These common knowledge representation resources are usually developed and maintained essentially co-evolve along with experimental evidence.
experimental evidence produced by scientists worldwide.
These common knowledge representation resources are usually developed and maintained manually along with experimental evidence.
visualize These common knowledge representation resources deltas is a challenging task for e-science.
Detecting automatically the differences between versions of the same ontology in order to store resources deltas is a challenging task for e-science.
languages allowing the formulation of intuitive deltas enough to describe unambiguously that can be efficiently detected.
concise deltas which are expressive.
languages allowing the formulation of concise deltas enough to describe unambiguously any possible change.
intuitive deltas which are expressive.
languages allowing the formulation of concise deltas enough to describe unambiguously that can be effectively detected.
languages allowing the formulation of concise deltas enough to describe unambiguously that can be efficiently detected.
languages allowing the formulation of intuitive deltas enough to describe unambiguously any possible change.
In this paper, we focus on languages.
languages allowing the formulation of intuitive deltas enough to describe unambiguously that can be effectively detected.
We propose a specific language.
a specific language that provide a change detection algorithm.
a change detection algorithm which is sound with respect to the proposed language.
a specific language that provably exhibits those characteristics.
a change detection algorithm which is complete with respect to the proposed language.
we framework using real ontologies from the bioinformatics domains.
Finally, we provide a promising experimental evaluation of we framework.
we framework using real ontologies from the cultural domains.