Women have higher lifetime risk of stroke than men, and metabolic factors seem more strongly associated with stroke for women than men . However, few studies in either men or women have evaluated metabolomic profiles and incident stroke .

We applied liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry to measure 519 plasma metabolites in a discovery set of women in the Nurses Health Study with validation in 2 independent, prospective cohorts: Prevención con Dieta Mediterránea and Nurses Health Study 2 . We applied logistic regression models with stroke as the outcome to adjust for multiple risk factors. The false discovery rate was controlled through the q value method .

Twenty-three metabolites were significantly associated with incident stroke in Nurses Health Study after adjustment for traditional risk factors . Of these, 14 metabolites were available in Prevención con Dieta Mediterránea and 3 were significantly associated with incident stroke: methionine sulfoxide, N6-acetyllysine, and sucrose . In Nurses Health Study 2, one of the 23 metabolites was significantly associated with incident stroke . For all 4 metabolites, higher levels were associated with increased risk . These 4 metabolites were used to create a stroke metabolite score in the Nurses Health Study and tested in Prevención con Dieta Mediterránea. Per unit of standard deviation of stroke metabolite score, the odds ratio for incident stroke was 4.12 in Prevención con Dieta Mediterránea, after adjustment for risk factors . In Prevención con Dieta Mediterránea, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for the model including stroke metabolite score and traditional risk factors was 0.70 vs the area under the receiver operating characteristc curve for the model including the traditional risk factors only of 0.65, corresponding to a 5 percent improvement in risk prediction with stroke metabolite score .

Discussion Metabolites associated with stroke included 2 amino acids, a carboxylic acid, and sucrose . A composite stroke metabolite score including these metabolites was associated with ischemic stroke and showed improvement in risk prediction beyond traditional risk factors .

This study provides Class II evidence that a stroke metabolite score accurately predicts incident ischemic stroke risk .

