Controlled Language for Ontology Editing tools offer an attractive alternative for naive users.
Ontology Editing tools are still required to spend time.
naive users wishing to create ontologies.
time learning the correct syntactic structures and vocabulary in order to use the Controlled Language properly.
This paper extends previous work.
previous work which uses standard NLP tools to manipulate an ontology.
previous work which uses standard NLP tools to process the Controlled Language.
an existing ontology using or shallow ) Natural Language Generation.
Here we also generate text in the Language from an existing ontology ( NLG ).
an existing ontology using template-based ) Natural Language Generation.
The text generator combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with one originally produced using previous work, ( re ) produce the modify the text as then turn the text back into the ontology in the previous work environment.
the previous work authoring process combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with one originally produced using previous work, ( re ) produce the edit the text as then turn the text back into the ontology in the previous work environment.
The text generator combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with one originally produced using previous work, ( re ) produce the modify the text as required.
the previous work authoring process combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with an existing imported ontology modify the text as then turn the text back into the ontology in the previous work environment.
the previous work authoring process combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with one originally produced using previous work, ( re ) produce the modify the text as required.
The text generator combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with an existing imported ontology modify the text as then turn the text back into the ontology in the previous work environment.
The text generator combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with an existing imported ontology edit the text as then turn the text back into the ontology in the previous work environment.
the previous work authoring process combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with an existing imported ontology edit the text as then turn the text back into the ontology in the previous work environment.
the previous work authoring process combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with an existing imported ontology modify the text as required.
The text generator combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with an existing imported ontology edit the text as required.
the previous work authoring process combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with one originally produced using previous work, ( re ) produce the modify the text as then turn the text back into the ontology in the previous work environment.
the previous work authoring process combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with one originally produced using previous work, ( re ) produce the edit the text as required.
the previous work authoring process combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with an existing imported ontology edit the text as required.
The text generator combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with one originally produced using previous work, ( re ) produce the edit the text as required.
The text generator combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with an existing imported ontology modify the text as required.
the Controlled Language.
The text generator combine to form a RoundTrip Ontology Authoring environment: one can start with one originally produced using previous work, ( re ) produce the edit the text as then turn the text back into the ontology in the previous work environment.
this learning curve for users.
Building on previous methodology we undertook an evaluation where previous work required a Language reference manual with several examples in order to use the Controlled Language, the use of NLG reduces this.
Building on previous methodology we undertook an evaluation where previous work required a Language reference manual with several examples in order to use the Controlled Language, the use of NLG improves on existing results for basic ontology editing tasks.
an evaluation comparing the RoundTrip Ontology Authoring process with a well-known ontology editor.