Ontologies of research areas are important tools for exploring the research landscape.
Ontologies of research areas are important tools for characterising the research landscape.
Ontologies of research areas are important tools for analysing the research landscape.
Some fields of research are comprehensively described by PhySH in Physics.
Some fields of research are comprehensively described by MeSH in Biology.
Some fields of research are comprehensively described by large-scale taxonomies.
Conversely, current Computer Science taxonomies tend to evolve slowly.
Conversely, current Computer Science taxonomies are coarse-grained.
For instance, the ACM classification scheme contains the last version dates back to 2012.
For instance, the ACM classification scheme contains only about 2K research topics back to 2012.
In this paper, we introduce the Computer Science Ontology, a large-scale, automatically generated ontology of research areas, which includes about 26K topics and 226K semantic relationships.
the Computer Science Ontology, a large-scale, was created by applying the Klink-2 algorithm on a very large dataset of 16M scientific articles.
the Computer Science Ontology presents two main advantages over the alternatives: i -RRB- the Computer Science Ontology, a large-scale, includes a very large number of topics that do not appear in other classifications, and ii -RRB- the Computer Science Ontology, a large-scale, can be updated automatically by running Klink-2 on recent corpora of publications.
adopted by the editorial team at Springer Nature.
the Computer Science Ontology powers several tools has been used to enable a variety of solutions, such as classifying research publications.
the Computer Science Ontology powers several tools has been used to enable a variety of solutions, such as detecting research communities.
the Computer Science Ontology powers several tools has been used to enable a variety of solutions, such as predicting research trends.
To facilitate the uptake of the Computer Science Ontology we have developed the the Computer Science Ontology Portal, a web application that enables users to download, explore, and provide granular feedback on the Computer Science Ontology at different levels.
Users can use the the Computer Science Ontology Portal, a web application that enables users to download, explore, and provide granular feedback on the Computer Science Ontology at different levels to rate topics and relationships, suggest missing relationships, and visualise sections of the ontology.
the the Computer Science Ontology Portal, a web application that enables users to download, explore, and provide granular feedback on the Computer Science Ontology at different levels will support the publication of and access to regular new releases of the Computer Science Ontology, with the aim of providing a comprehensive resource to the various communities engaged with scholarly data.