Ras–mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling abnormalities occur in most brain arteriovenous malformations . No means exist to molecularly profile brain arteriovenous malformations without open surgery, limiting precision medicine approaches to treatment . Here, we report use of endoluminal biopsy of the vessel lumen of brain arteriovenous malformations to characterize gene expression and blood flow–mediated transcriptional changes in living patients .

Endoluminal biopsy and computational fluid dynamic modeling were performed in adults with unruptured AVMs with cerebral angiography . Each patient underwent surgical resection and cell sampling from a contiguous arterial segment . Fluorescence-assisted cell sorting enriched endothelial cells, which were sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq 4000 sequencer . Gene expression was quantified with RNA sequencing . Differential gene expression, ontology, and correlative analyses were performed . Results were validated with quantitative reverse transcription PCR .

Endoluminal biopsy was successful in 4 patients without complication . Endoluminal biopsy yielded 269 cells per biopsy . RNAseq identified 106 differentially expressed genes in brain arteriovenous malformations . differentially expressed genes were enriched for bAVM pathogenic cascades, including Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, and confirmed with reverse transcription PCR and a panel predictive of mitogen-activated protein kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinase inhibitor response . Compared to patient-matched surgically excised tissues, endoluminal biopsy detected 83.3 percent of genes, and genome-wide expression strongly correlated . Wall shear stress measured by fluid dynamic modeling correlated with inflammatory pathway upregulation . Comparison of pre-embolization and postembolization samples confirmed flow-mediated gene expression changes .

Endoluminal biopsy allows molecular profiling of brain arteriovenous malformations in living patients . Gene expression profiles are similar to those of tissues acquired with open surgery and identify potentially targetable Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling abnormalities in brain arteriovenous malformations . Integration with fluid dynamic modeling allows determination of flow-mediated transcriptomic alterations . Endoluminal biopsy may help facilitate trials of precision medicine approaches to brain arteriovenous malformations in humans .
