Age-related cognitive impairment is driven by the complex interplay of neurovascular and neurodegenerative disease . There is a strong relationship between cerebral microbleeds, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, and the cognitive decline observed in conditions such as Alzheimer disease . However, in the early, preclinical phase of cognitive impairment, the extent to which cerebral microbleeds and underlying cerebral amyloid angiopathy affect volumetric changes in the brain related to neurodegenerative disease remains unclear .

We performed cross-sectional analyses from 3 large cohorts, The Northern Manhattan Study, Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, and the Epidemiology of Dementia in Singapore study . We conducted a confirmatory analysis of 82 autopsied cases from the Brain Arterial Remodeling Study . We implemented multivariate regression analyses to study the association between 2 related markers of cerebrovascular disease—MRI-based cerebral microbleeds and autopsy-based cerebral amyloid angiopathy—as independent variables and volumetric markers of neurodegeneration as dependent variables . Northern Manhattan Study included mostly dementia-free participants age 55 years or older from northern Manhattan . Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative included participants living in the United States age 55 to 90 years with a range of cognitive status . Epidemiology of Dementia in Singapore included community-based participants living in Singapore age 60 years and older with a range of cognitive status . Brain Arterial Remodeling Study included postmortem pathologic samples .

We included 2,657 participants with available MRI data and 82 autopsy cases from Brain Arterial Remodeling Study . In a meta-analysis of Northern Manhattan Study, Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, and Epidemiology of Dementia in Singapore, superficial cerebral microbleeds were associated with larger gray matter and white matter volumes . The association between superficial cerebral microbleeds and larger white matter volume was more evident in participants with 1 cerebral microbleed than in those with over 2 cerebral microbleeds . In Brain Arterial Remodeling Study, cerebral amyloid angiopathy was associated with increased cortical thickness but not with increased brain weight .

Superficial cerebral microbleeds are associated with larger morphometric brain measures, specifically white matter volume . This association is strongest in brains with fewer cerebral microbleeds, suggesting that the cerebral microbleed/cerebral amyloid angiopathy contribution to neurodegeneration may not relate to tissue loss, at least in early stages of disease .
